Who invented the light bulb?
Home » inventions » Who invented the light bulb?
Who invented the light bulb?
Who invented the light bulb? No, it wasn’t Thomas Edison. Light bulbs were in use long before Edison applied for the patent in 1879. British inventor Humphry Davy invented an incandescent light bulb in 1801 and created the “arc lamp” in 1809.
In 1835, Scottish inventor James Bowman Lindsay demonstrated a constant electric light in Dundee. In 1840, British scientist Warren de la Rue also demonstrated a light bulb.
In 1841, British inventor Frederick DeMoleyns patented a light bulb and in 1844 American John Wellington Starr filed a U. S. patent caveat for an incandescent lamp. Many others would follow suit but none of the bulbs were effective for everyday use.
In 1872, Russian engineer Alexander Lodygin invented an incandescent light bulb for which was awarded a Russian patent in 1874. In 1877, William E. Sawyer developed a incandescent light in partnership with Albon Man.
In the late 1870s, Hiram Stevens Maxim – who later, in 1884, invented the first fully automatic machine gun – developed a light bulb and in 1880 installed the first electric lights in a New York City building (the Equitable Life Building at 120 Broadway).
Joseph Swan
British inventor Joseph Wilson Swan started experimenting with light bulb designs in 1850. On December, 18 1878, he demonstrated a light bulb at a lecture in Newcastle upon Tyne that soon had the attention of the world, including Edison.
Swan was awarded a light bulb patent (patent No. 4933) only in 1880, the year in which his house in Gateshead, England became the first house in the world lit by a light bulb.
Thomas Edison
Edison entered the race to develop an effective light bulb in 1878. He struggled with a solution at first but, with the assistance of Francis Upton, on October, 22 1879 he had a breakthrough. His light bulb burned continuously for 13 hours. Edison filed for a patent on November, 4 1879.
Edison continued with experiments and by the end of 1880 his light bulbs burned for up to 600 hours. Eventually they would glow for up to 1,200 hours.
Electric lamps: Joseph Swan’s 1878 invention (left) and Thomas Edison’s light bulb of 1879.
Swan vs Edison
Edison went on to make big buck from the light bulb but Swan sued Edison for infringement and won. As part of the settlement, Edison was forced to take Swan in as a partner but later bought him out in the company that was to become General Electric.
In 1883, the US Patent Office ruled that Edison’s patent on the light bulb might have been based on that of William Sawyer and was invalid. It is not that Edison stole the idea: there are many examples of different people thinking up the same concept at more-or-less the same time. But there is no doubt that Edison borrowed some ideas for his light bulb design from Swan’s design.
Thomas Alva Edison (1847 – 1931) certainly was not a lazy guy. He filed 1,093 patents, including those for electric railways and the movie camera. When he died in 1931, he held 34 patents for the telephone, 141 for batteries, 150 for the telegraph and 389 patents for electric light and power. Unlike Leonardo da Vinci who never built the inventions he designed, Edison was not just a great theorist. He coined the phrase: “Genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration.” He also said: “There are no rules here. We’re trying to get work done.”
So, who invented the light bulb?
It is generally recognized Thomas Edison perfected the electric light bulb but that Humphry Davy invented the light bulb.
Note: Article updated April 2013
03/29/2010. Category: inventions. Tags: edison, light bulb.
You may also like -


Predictions that missed the mark
Home » did you know » Predictions that missed the mark
Predictions that missed the mark
In 1894, the president of the Royal Society, William Thomson, Lord Kelvin, predicted that radio had no future. The first radio factory was opened five years later. Today, there are more than one billion radio sets in the world, tuned to more than 33 000 radio stations around the world. He also predicted that heavier-than-air flying machines were impossible. The Wright Brother’s first flight covered a distance equal to only half the length of the wingspan of a Boeing 747. He also said, “X-rays will prove to be a hoax.” 
Center of the universe
In the 6th century BC Greek mathematician Pythagoras said that earth is round – but few agreed with him. Greek astronomer Aristarchos said in the 3rd century BC that earth revolves around the sun – but the idea was not accepted. In the 2nd century BC Greek astronomer Erastosthenes accurately measured the distance around the earth at about 40,000 km (24,860 miles) – but nobody believed him. In the 2nd century AD Greek astronomer Ptolemy stated that earth was the center of the universe – most people believed him for the next 1,400 years.
Running out of chauffeurs
In the early 20th century a world market for only 4 million automobiles was predicted because “the world would run out of chauffeurs.” Shortly after the end of World War II (1945), the whole of Volkswagen, factory and patents, was offered free to Henry Ford II. He dismissed the Volkswagen Beetle as a bad design. Today, more than 70 million motorcars are produced every year. The Beetle became one of the best-selling vehicles of all time.
Irish scientist, Dr. Dionysius Lardner (1793 – 1859) didn’t believe that trains could contribute much in speedy transport. He wrote: “Rail travel at high speed is not possible, because passengers ‘ would die of asphyxia’ [suffocation].” Today, trains reach speeds of 500 km/h.
Electronic future
The telephone was not widely appreciated for the first 15 years because people did not see a use for it. In fact, in the British parliament it was mentioned there was no need for telephones because “we have enough messengers here.” Western Union believed that it could never replace the telegraph. In 1876, an internal memo read: “This telephone has too many shortcomings to be seriously considered as a means of communication.” Even Mark Twain, upon being invited by Alexander Graham Bell to invest $5 000 in the new invention, could not see a future in the telephone.
In 1927, H.M. Warner, Warner Brothers, asked, “Who the hell wants to hear actors talk?” In 1936, Radio Times editor Rex Lambert thought “Television won’t matter in your lifetime or mine.”
In 1943, Thomas Watson, the chairman of IBM forecast a world market for “maybe only five computers.” Years before IBM launched the personal computer in 1981, Xerox had already successfully designed and used PCs internally… but decided to concentrate on the production of photocopiers. Even Ken Olson, founder of Digital Equipment Corporation, said in 1977, “There is no reason anyone would want a computer in their home.”
After the invention of the transistor in 1947, several US electronics companies rejected the idea of a portable radio. Apparently it was thought nobody would want to carry a radio around. When Bell put the transistor on the market in 1952 they had few takers apart from a small Japanese start-up called Sony. They introduced the transistor radio in 1954.
Way out predictions
In 1894, A.A. Michelson, who with E.W. Morley seven years earlier experimentally demonstrated the constancy of the speed of light, said that the future of science would consist of “adding a few decimal places to the results already obtained.”
In 1954, a concert manager fired Elvis Presley, saying, “You ought to go back to driving a truck.” In 1962, Decca Records rejected the Beatles, “We don’t like their sound, and guitar music is on the way out.”
In 1966, Time Magazine predicted, “By 2000, the machines will be producing so much that everyone in the U.S. will, in effect, be independently wealthy.” In that year too CoCo Chanel said about miniskirts: “It’s a bad joke that won’t last. Not with winter coming.”
Sometimes a few decimal places make a massive difference. Investment banks rely on computer models to direct trading activity; in August 2007, Goldman Sachs’s hedge funds and other quant funds were left exposed by a series of market swings, each of which their software predicted would occur only once every 100,000 years. Goldman Sachs required a $3 billion (€1.9 billion) bailout, with other banks joining the hand-out queue.
Perhaps the guy who got it wrong most was the commissioner of the US Office of Patents: in 1899, Charles H. Duell, assured President McKinley that “everything that can be invented has been invented.”
“To prophesy is extremely difficult – especially with regard to the future.” – Chinese proverb. (See more Witty Quotes)
Cartoon by Harn Lay
Edgar Cayce’s Predictions for the 21st Century
Totally Absurd Inventions
02/04/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: predictions, radio.
You may also like -


World’s first Android phone
Home » technology » World’s first Android phone
World’s first Android phone
Phones have come a long way since Innocenzo Manzetti played around with the idea of a “speaking telegraph” in 1844. Development of the landline telephone came in leaps and bounds but it is the mobile phone that truly captured a global audience.
The first mobile phones were produced by Bell System for use in cars only, introduced in 1946 on their Mobile Telephone Service in St. Louis, Missouri. The first call on a handheld mobile phone was made on April, 3 1973 by Motorola’s Martin Cooper to his rival, Joel S. Engel of Bell Labs. Nicknamed “the brick” the first mobile phones weighed 2 lb (0,9kg) and cost $3,995. 
As with most inventions, it takes a while (and a lot of teething problems) before a product reaches an acceptable cost factor for both the producer and the consumer. Early mobile networks were patchy and phones were expensive, bulky and less than attractive.
When the 1G network launched in 1983, the phones were still too big for comfort and suffered from short battery life. By the time 2G was introduced, in 1991, the phones were better and the first smartphones were introduced. But it was only after 2001, when 3G cellular technology was launched, that the mobile phone market really took off. Networks were faster and phones were smaller and more affordable. The entry-level Nokia 1100, launched in 2003, was snapped up 1 million times a week to eventually become the world’s most popular cell phone with over 200 million units sold. By 2011, Apple had sold more than 100 million iPhone smartphones.
Introducing Android – a smart move
Android, Inc. was founded in October 2003 by Andy Rubin, Rich Miner, Nick Sears and Chris White. Google bought it in 2005 and the Linux-based Android operating system was unveiled in 2007. The rest – as the Google history itself – is a remarkable piece of history. People loved Android.
By 2012, Android enjoyed 1.5 million activations per day. . There are almost a billion Android apps available. Some 25 billion apps have been downloaded from the Android app site, Google Play.
World’s first Android phone
By 2013, mobile phones have replaced watches and cameras as the primary time tellers and for taking photographs and videos.
Many users have more than one phone or mobile device, resulting in more than 6 billion mobile subscriptions worldwide, almost half of these being smartphone subscriptions. Android is found on 75% of those smartphones in use.
But do you remember first phone to run on Android?
The world’s first Android phone was the HTC Dream – it came to the market in October 2008 as the T-Mobile G1 in the USA and, when signing a two-year service agreement, sold for $179.
04/26/2013. Category: technology. Tags: cell phones, telephone.
You may also like -


So, who invented the paperclip?
Home » inventions » Who invented the paperclip
Who invented the paperclip
When Johann Vaaler patented his paper clip in 1901, there already were similar designs on the books. William Middlebrook of Waterbury, Connecticut patented his design in 1899. Cornelius Brosnan of Springfield, Massachusetts patented his Konaclip in 1900.
So, who was first to invent the paper clip?
Well, it is thought to be Johann Vaaler. Drawings of his design date to early 1899, but since Norway had no patent law at the time he had to seek patent rights in Germany and the US in the following years.
Johann Vaaler was born on 15 March 1866 in Aurskog, Norway. Known as an innovator in his youth, he graduated in electronics, science and mathematics. He was employed by the owner of an invention office when he invented the paper clip in 1899.
Several designs followed the original. Only a few remain, such as the Ideal, Non-Skid, Owl and Gem. The first double-oval clip, the Gem, was launched in early-1900 by Gem Manufacturing Ltd of England. The paper clip remains as one of the most-used items of all time.
02/07/2010. Category: inventions. Tags: paperclips.
You may also like -


Espresso has less caffeine than cup of coffee
Home » food » Facts about coffee and caffeine
Facts about coffee and caffeine
An espresso has less caffeine than a cup of coffee
A cup of drip brewed coffee has about 115 milligrams of caffeine, an espresso (and percolated coffee) about 80mg, while instant coffee has about 65mg of caffeine.
Decaffeinated coffee is not totally caffeine free, containing about 3mg of caffeine.
A 8oz can of Coca-Cola has about 23mg of caffeine, Pepsi Cola 25mg, Mountain Dew 36mg, and TAB 31mg. Tea has about 40mg of caffeine, while an ounce of chocolate contains about 20mg. 
The first Espresso machine was introduced in 1822 by the French, but it was the Italians who perfected and distributed it.
Coffee business
Coffee is the world’s most popular stimulant: 4 out of 5 Americans drink it, consuming more than 400 million cups a day. Consumption in Scandinavian countries is more than 12kg (26lb) per capita.
With more than 25 million people employed in the industry, coffee is one of the largest trade industries in the world.
Although coffee is believed to have been grown near the Red Sea since the 7th century, an Arabian author of the 15th century, Shehabeddin Ben, wrote that Ethiopians enjoyed coffee ever since anyone could remember. By the 16th centuries, coffee plants were found throughout the Yemen region of Arabia.
After a Turkish ambassador introduced it to the court of Louis XIV in 1669, Europeans quickly acquired a taste for it. A few years later, the Dutch introduced coffee into Java.
In 1714, the Frenchman Desclieux planted a single cutting of a coffee tree on the island of Martinique. Plantations soon grew from French Guiana to Brazil and Central America. Today, coffee is planted in moist regions around the world.
Instant coffee was invented in 1906 by Mr. G. Washington, an Englishman living in Guatemala.
Genus Coffea
Coffee is the seed of a cherry from the tree genus Coffea, a tree yielding about 1kg (2lb) of coffee per year. There are more than 25 species of coffee, the 3 main commercial types (varietals) being Robusta, Liberia and Arabica, the latter representing 70% of total production. It takes 42 coffee beans to make an espresso.
Red coffee beans ready for picking.
Caffeine is removed from coffee by treating the green beans – large seeds are commonly referred to as beans – with chlorinated hydrocarbon solvents.
Instant coffee is prepared by mixing ground and roasted coffee with hot water. The water is then evaporated by spray dryers and high pressure, leaving only the coffee powder.
In some coffee products, coffee is replaced with chicory (a wildflower herb), fig, date, malt, or barley, remotely resembling real coffee.
Caffeine increases the power of aspirin and other painkillers, that is why it is found in some medicines. Ironically, caffeine withdrawal also is one of the most common causes of headaches.
Women who drink 2 or more cups of coffee a day also have an increased risk of developing osteoporosis. This, however, can be offset by drinking milk or yogurt to replace the lost calcium. Most studies have found that high caffeine consumption impairs fertility and taken during pregnancy may cause premature or defected birth.
Caffeine is known medically as trimethylxanthine and the chemical formula is C8H10N4O2.
Cappuccino
The word “cappuccino” comes from the 16th century Capuchin order of friars, whose hoods were called cappuccinos. A cappuccino is a coffee topped with steamed milk.
Barista
A barista is an expert in the preparation of espresso-based coffee drinks. Top Baristas compete annually in the World Barista Championship.
The small cup in which an espresso (sometimes referred to as expresso) is served is called a demitasse.
TIP
The word “tip” is also related to coffee. It comes from old London coffeehouses where the waiters’ brass boxes were etched with the inscription, “To Insure Promptness.” In fact, it was in one such coffeehouses which belonged to a Mr Lloyd that a few cargo insurers got together to start the Lloyd’s insurance company. Read more about the origin of the word TIP.
National Coffee Day is held on various days throughout the world but most countries, including the United States, hold it on September 29.
International Coffee Day is celebrated on October 1.
02/07/2010. Category: food. Tags: caffeine, coffee, espresso.
You may also like -


Size of the sun in comparison
Home » science » The size of the sun in comparison
The size of the sun in comparison
It is the fire of life. It can be kind but it can get angry. But it never throws its weight around. It is the sun. And although it is 330,000 more massive than earth and contains 99.8% of the mass in our solar system, it is small in comparison with some other stars.
The sun never ceases to amaze us with its theatrics, its lava flares dancing across its surface in a ballet of nuclear fusion, sometimes leaping millions of miles into the air. And although the sun is big, its intense heat and light makes it difficult to capture good images with normal instruments. So NASA scientists use an Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager and an Atmospheric Imaging Assembly detector to view the ultra-violet (UV) and extreme ultra-violet lithography (EUV) wavelengths released by the sun. The resulting images are spectacular.
Full disk image of the sun. Ain’t it beautiful?!
Full disk image of the sun as taken by NASA Solar Dynamics Observatory, which orbits 22,300 miles above earth.
Earth in comparison to the sun
Earth’s distance from the sun varies between 91.4 million miles – in January – and 94.4 million miles – in July. The average distance of 92,955,887.6 miles (149, 597, 870.7 kilometers) is called 1 astronomical unit (AU), a measurement that is used to report distances to other planets and stars as well. In short, it’s not a weekend drive.
NASA puts the size of earth to the sun in perspective like this: Suppose the radius of Earth were the width of an ordinary paper clip, the radius of the sun would be roughly the height of a desk, and the sun would be about 100 paces from earth.
Earth size in comparison to the sun and other planets
(Hey, we’re small but we’re beautiful!)
The size of the sun in comparison
Our sun is one of billions in the entire universe. It also is fairly small in comparison with other big stars. In fact, our sun is classified as a G2 dwarf star. Sirius, the brightest star in the night sky, is twice as massive as the sun and 25 times more luminous. And Sirius is dwarfed by Pollux, which is eight times the radius of the sun. And Pollux is dwarfed by Arcturus, which is almost 26 times the size of the sun.
It’s a big, big universe
But there are bigger stars yet. When compared to Antares, our handsome sun is a mere pixel on a map. And Antares is not even the biggest star. That title is thought to belong to a star called VY Canus Majoris. It is about 2,000 times the size of the sun, or more than twice the size of Antares.
Sun in comparison to Antares
Note that it VY Canus Majoris is the biggest in size but not mass. The currently known most massive star is thought to be WR 102ka – known as Peony Nebula Star – at about 175 times the mass of the sun.
How big is the universe?
The Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe calculated the age of the known universe at 13.7 billion years old, based on its radius of 13.7 billion light years. And it is growing bigger every day, at a speed of 71 km/s/Mpc. The size of the whole universe is estimated to be 78 billion light years. If you start traveling today at 60 miles per hour (100km/h) you’ll get to the end of your first coffee stop, the end of one light year, in nine trillion years. Then you just keep going for another 77.999 999 billion light years. Or you could stay here, look after our beautiful planet… and enjoy the sun.
04/23/2010. Category: science. Tags: astronomy, planets, stars, sun.
You may also like -


Choosing a mate for life
Home » did you know » Choosing a mate for life
Choosing a mate for life
In 1976, Mrs Janine Swift of Los Angeles married a 50lb (22kg) rock in a ceremony that was witnessed by 20 people. With a divorce rate of about 50% in the West, it is doubtful that she’s still married to the rock. In fact, the chance of a first marriage ending in divorce is between 50% and 67%.
The chance that a second marriage will end in divorce is about 10% higher than for the first marriage.
The reasons for divorce are many and varied but the biggest reason still is unbearable moaning (complaining) by one of both partners although it is not a reason cited in court – most courts would not grant a divorce on such grounds. The most common “legal” reason is irreconcilable differences.
Many people think the reason for the high percentage of divorce simply is because it is too easily granted. In some cultures, in olden times, you didn’t even need to go to a court to get a divorce. A Pueblo Indian woman divorced her husband simply by leaving his moccasins on the doorstep. Turkish bridegrooms were once required to include in their wedding vows that they will provide their new wives with coffee. If they failed, it was grounds for divorce.
In Islamic law a husband can divorce by simple repudiation which may be documented at a later stage. Al he has to do is say “ṭalāq” (literary Arabic for “I divorce you”).
Some reasons for divorce are odd but reasonable. For instance, in 1949 Mrs Caroline Squires of Cincinnati filed for a divorce from her husband on grounds of desertion. She testified that he had stepped out for a beer on 4 July 1917 – and had never come back. See more weird divorce stories and really strange divorces.
Love to get married… and divorced
“Love and marriage go together like a horse and carriage,” Frank Sinatra sang Sammy Cohen’s lyrics. He didn’t mention that sometimes the cart is before the horse.
Former Baptist minister, Scotty Wolfe of Blythe, California, first married in 1927. In 1998 he separated from his 28th wife. The record for the most times married is 53 times, held by Kamarudin Mohamad of Malaysia (he passed away in 2007) who took the (once sacred) oath for the last time 2004.
The record for the shortest marriage is held by a Saudi Arabia man who repudiated his bride after the wedding ceremony because the bride’s brother took a photograph of couple.
Married for just a few minutes more were Victoria Anderson and Scott McKie of Australia: their marriage lasted 90 minutes.
Other famous short marriages are that of Britney Spears being married to Jason Alexander for only two days in 2004 and Cher divorcing musician Gregg Allman only nine days after making the big promise.
Choosing a mate for life… more or less
All is not doom and gloom, however. There are many couples who remain married for life – the other 50%, in fact! The record for the longest marriage is 90 years, held by Chinese couple Zhu Yingzhou and Xiong Fazhen.
Love is a wonderful thing and most people aspire to stay married for life and be faithful to one partner.
Well, more or less.  In this sense, we humans are much like monogamous animals. As you know, having a mate for life is not exclusive to humans. 90% of bird species are monogamous, as are 10% of mammals.
The most famously monogamous birds are penguins, parrots, pigeons, geese, swan and albatrosses. Lions, wolves, orangutans, gorillas, horses and beavers are monogamous mammals.
But are they faithful?
Not quite. About 10% of the monogamous birds sometimes fly off to mate with another. Which is almost the same as humans. One in 10 children of married couples is born from a different father.
04/12/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: divorce, love, marry, monogamy.
You may also like -


An acre of hemp produces more paper than an acre of trees
Home » nature » An acre of hemp produces more paper than an acre of trees
An acre of hemp produces more paper than an acre of trees
For thousands of years, until 1883, hemp was the world’s largest agricultural crop, from which the majority of fiber, fabric, soap, lighting oil, paper, incense, and medicines were produced. In addition, it was a primary source of essential food oil and protein for humans and animals. Hemp seeds contain all the essential amino acids necessary for health. The oil from hemp seeds has the highest percentage of essential fatty acids and the lowest percentage of saturated fats.
An acre of hemp produces more paper than an acre of trees. Paper made from hemp lasts for centuries, compared to 25-80 years for paper made from wood pulp. The US Declaration of Independence was written on hemp paper.
Industrial hemp contains less than 1% of THC, the psychoactive component of marijuana (which is also called cannabis). Trying to get high on industrial hemp is akin to trying to get drunk on non-alcohol beer. Hemp was forced from the market in the late 19th century by a campaign launched by newspaper magnates who also held controlling shares in the paper mill and cotton industry. It remains as one of the most scandalous yet least spoken about examples of fraud in world history.
In 1937, Congress passed the Marijuana Tax Act which effectively halted hemp production in the United States. It was briefly overridden during the Second World War when overseas supplies dried up but the campaign, called Hemp For Victory, was quickly withdrawn after the war.
Hemp can be grown in virtually any climate or soil condition, and grows extremely fast, yielding up to 4 crops a year. Canada, China and France are major hemp producers. George Washington and Thomas Jefferson both grew hemp. Ben Franklin owned a mill that made hemp paper. But today the United States is the only industrial country in the world where the growing of hemp is prohibited.
Hemp cars
In 1941, the Ford motor company produced an experimental automobile with a plastic body composed of 70% cellulose fibres from hemp. The car body could absorb blows 10 times as great as steel without denting. The car was also designed to run on hemp fuel. Because of the ban on both hemp and alcohol the car was never mass produced. In 2008, Lotus Cars announced they will be using hemp in the production of body panels for their Lotus Eco Elise.
The Good Drugs Guide to cannabis
Why you should not smoke
09/22/2010. Category: nature. Tags: cannabis, hemp, trees.
You may also like -


Origin of the word “tip”
Home » money » To Insure Promptness
To Insure Promptness
Edward Lloyd opened his coffee house in Tower Street in London in 1688. One corner of the coffee shop was reserved for ships’ captains where they could compare notes. Wealthy individuals who frequented Lloyd’s coffee house would each take a share of the risk of insuring the ships and their cargoes, signing their names one beneath the other on the policy, thereby being known as “underwriters”.
To Insure Promptness
It was in Lloyd’s Coffee House that a brass container for the benefit of waitrons was first inscribed with the words “To Insure Promptness”. The idea was that a patron would put an amount of money into the container before sitting down to insure promptness of service from the waitrons. The “to insure promptness” on the container is what we now call a TIP.
Or so it is told. The Oxford Dictionary explains the origin of “tip” (as gratuity) being from the 17th century, meaning “to give” or “to pass”. World Wide Words points out that TIP was first mentioned in George Farquhar’s play The Beaux Stratagem of 1706: “Then I, Sir, tips me the Verger with half a Crown”.
Lloyd’s of London
Lloyd moved his coffee shop to Lombard Street, London in 1691. Edward Lloyd himself was not involved in insurance but after his death in 1713 his coffee shop remained the center for marine insurance. In 1769, the coffee shop moved to Popes Head Alley as New Lloyds Coffee House. In 1771, seventy-nine underwriters who did business at Lloyd’s coffee shop subscribed £100 each and Lloyd’s Coffee House became The Society of Lloyd’s of London. It was incorporated in 1871. You’ll now find them at 1 Lime Street, London in the Inside-Out Building.
The idiom “A-1″ – an expression of something that is the best – comes from a term used in Lloyd’s Register of Shipping. It is used to describe a ship that is in topnotch condition. The key of the register indicates that the A stands for a new ship or a ship that was restored or renewed. The stores of the vessel are rated 1 and 2. The 1 indicates the stores are in good shape.
Prompt or not
Whatever or wherever the origin of the word “tip”, it is now given after being served, whether the service was prompt or not.
Also see: Coffee
09/27/2010. Category: money. Tags: coffee, lloyds, tip.
You may also like -


10 good uses for salt
Home » food » 10 good uses for salt
10 good uses for salt
Just a pinch of it and it’s worth it. We’re talking salt here. Used throughout human history, mentioned often in the Bible, ubiquitous and cheap. Mined from salt rocks and extracted from sea water, salt is… well, the “salt of the earth.” You can’t live without it healthily. At the same time, you can’t live healthily with too much of it. Get the balance right – in your food and in your live – and salt is worth it’s own weight.
10 surprising good uses for salt
1. Deter ants
Sprinkle salt in doorways, on window sills and anywhere else ants use to sneak into your house. It’s a sure way to keep them out!
2. Kill grass and weeds growing in cracks in your driveway
Tired of weeding your driveway? Sprinkle salt on the grass and pour very hot water over it. Not only is this a highly effective way to kill unwanted plants, it’s also eco-friendly and cheap.
3. Say goodbye to fleas
If your dogs have fleas, simply wash their doghouse and blankets in salt water. If you’re worried your dogs may have brought fleas into your house, simply sprinkle your carpets lightly with salt and then brush it in. Leave it for 12 hours and vacuum thoroughly.
4. Pick up a dropped egg
If you drop an egg on the kitchen floor, sprinkle salt on the mess and leave it there for 20 minutes. You’ll be able to wipe it right up.
5. Clean up oven spills quickly
If a pie or casserole bubbles over in the oven, pour a handful of salt on top of the spill. It won’t smoke, smell and, most importantly, will bake into a crust that makes the mess easier to clean once it’s cooled.
6. Clean brown spots off your iron
Simply sprinkle salt on a sheet of waxed paper, slide the iron across it and rub lightly with silver polish. Your iron will look like brand-new in no time.
7. Remove stains from your coffee pot
Fill it with 1/4 cup of table salt and a dozen ice cubes. Swish the mixture around, let it sit for half an hour, fill it with cold water and rinse. Your coffee pot will look brand new.
8. Keep your windshield frost-free
Dip a sponge into salt water and rub it on windows, and they won’t frost up even when the mercury drops below zero.
9. Shell nuts more easily
Soak pecans and walnuts in salt water for a few hours before shelling them. Doing so will make it easier to remove the meat.
10. Drip-proof candles
If you soak new candles in a strong salt solution for a few hours, then dry them well, they won’t drip when you burn them.
And some more uses
11. Tame a wild BBQ
Toss a bit of salt on the flames caused by fat dripping from the grill. It’ll reduce the flames and calm the smoke without cooling the coals (like water would).
12. Soothe a bee sting
Wet the sting right away, then cover it with salt.
13. Stop a grease fire
Pouring salt on top of a grease fire will smother it. Completely.
14. Cooking tip
If a soup or stew is too sweet, add a pinch of salt. (See more cooking tips.)
Source: Salt Institute
07/13/2011. Category: food. Tags: salt.
You may also like -


Were Wright Brother the first to fly?
Home » vehicles » Were the Wright Brothers the first to fly?
Were the Wright Brothers the first to fly?
Wilbur and Orville Wright weren’t just lucky to make the first flight. They played with flying paper models in their youth, and by 1901 they had made hundreds of wind tunnel tests. In 1902, their glider was the biggest flying machine ever built. Orville Wright wrote, “We now hold all the records! The largest machine…the longest time in the air, the smallest angle of descent, and the highest wind!”
They called on the machine making skills of Charles E. Taylor, and by February 1903 they had an engine. By June, they had built a propeller. They headed for Kitty Hawk, North Carolina in September to build their Flyer. 
On Monday 13 December 1903, a toss of a coin gave Wilbur the honor of making the first flight. The engine and propeller powered the plane, the Flyer lifted off but immediately sank down, slightly damaged.
First flight?
By Friday 17 December 1903, the Flyer was fixed, and at 10h35, Orville made the first powered flight. It lasted 12 seconds. Wilbur made the second flight, which lasted less than a second longer than the first. Orville took the 3rd flight, covering 60 metres (200 ft) in 15 seconds. At noon, Wilbur made the fourth flight on that blustery day. The Flyer covered 255,6 metres (852 ft) in 59 seconds. He landed safely, but a sudden gust of wind sent the plane tumbling, breaking the wings and damaging the motor. There would be no more flights in 1903.
There were 5 men to witness the Wright Brothers’ flights. Orville even set up a camera so that a Mr Daniels could take photographs. But there were no newspaper men. In the Spring of 1904, they built a new plane and invited the press. The weather was not quite right, but since the reporters were there, they tried anyway. The plane failed to lift off. The Wright Brothers didn’t make the papers. They did fly again but spent the rest of their lives fighting about their patent and died without knowing the world finally recognized their work. In 1914, the Franklin Institute became the first scientific institution to recognize the Wright Brothers’ achievement.
Orville Wright makes first flight of the Flyer – picture taken by Mr Daniels
But were the Wright Brothers really the first to fly?
By the time the Wright brothers got their flyer up in the air, flying was a hobby for New Zealand farmer Richard Pearse. Working single-handedly in his barn, he designed and built his own engine and flying machine. Datings suggest that Pearse made his first flight in March 1902. His remarkable success remained unknown until fairly recently.
But there is an account of an even earlier flight…
“Two years, four months and three days before the successful flights of the Wright brothers at Kitty Hawk, a birdlike monoplane took to the air at early dawn on August 14, 1901, near Bridgeport, Connecticut, carrying its inventor and builder, Gustave Whitehead, a distance of approximately
a half mile.” – Megan Adam, descendant of Gustave A. Whitehead.
Even though there are no blueprints of Whitehead’s craft, the debate continues on whether Whitehead might indeed have been the first to have taken to the sky in a machine-powered aircraft.
Gustave A. Whitehead’s monoplane
Other first flight claims
John Springfellow and John Henson’s steam-powered flyer of 1848.
A South African named John Goodman Houshold is said to have made his first flight in 1870.
Shivkur Bapuji Talpade’s Marutsakthi aircraft of 1895.
The early flights (1898 to 1905) made by Alberto Santos Dumont.
Factoids
By 1901, the Wright Brothers had the best collection of lift data in the world, some based on the pioneering work on gliding made by George Cayley.
On 23 March 1903, they applied for a patent for their new invention. This allowed them to request a fee for using their design. Other aviators were furious and refused to pay.
It is thought that Charles W. Furras, mechanic for the Wright Brothers, became the first airplane passenger when Wilbur gave him a 29 second ride in 1908. The brothers also took passengers on demonstration flights when they spent a year in Europe in an attempt to sell their patent.
A Boeing 747 is 70 metres (232 ft) long, 19 metres (63 ft) high and needs a runway of 3,2 km (10,500 ft). It weighs a massive 394 625 kg (870,000 pounds) at takeoff. How does it stay in the air?
First to fly around the world
02/08/2010. Category: vehicles. Tags: aircraft, airplane, flying, wright.
You may also like -


Nostradamus predictions
Home » did you know » Nostradamus predictions
Nostradamus predictions
NOSTRADAMUS, the French Christian Jew who lived in France in the 16th century, made many forecasts, including the two World Wars. 18 of his 950 quatrains refer to a third world war.
Some Nostradamus experts had given the date for the start of such a war as mid-1999, referring to the Balkan conflict surrounding Kosovo.
They obviously misinterpreted the quatrains. Their attention then turned to the 11 September 2001 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in New York, to other conflicts and to predictions of plagues.
NOSTRADAMUS
Born Michel de Notredame on 14 December 1503 in St Remy, France, he was the oldest of five sons. His grandfather, Jean, taught him Latin, Greek, Hebrew, mathematics and astrology at an early age. Nostradamus received a medical degree in 1529 and became physician-in-ordinary to Charles IX during a plague. He is said to have had extraordinary healing abilities, credited with curing plagues in areas that he worked.
Nostradamus was in his late 40s when, it is told, he frequently went into a meditative state and had visions of the future. He began to document the visions in a mixture of Lain, French, and Greek quatrains, dividing them into ten section called “Centuries” and publishing them between 1555 and 1558. The first edition, called Les Prophéties (The Prophecies) contained three Centuries and 53 quatrains.
Nostradamus was married twice, losing his first wife and two children to the plague. He died on 2 July 1566.
“The Prophesies” was translated into English in 1672 as The True Prophecies or Prognostications of Michael Nostradamus, Physician to Henry II. Francis II. and Charles IX. Kings of France.
In 1781, The Prophesies was banned by the Roman Catholic Church. Ironically, in 1553, when Nostradamus encountered a group of Franciscan monks he threw himself on his knees, clutching at the garment of one of the monks, Felice Peretti. When asked why he had done this he replied that he must yield “before his Holiness.” Nineteen years after the death of Nostradamus, Peretti became Pope Sixtus V.
What the experts say Nostradamus predicted about the Balkan war
The war prophecy is reserved for someone whom Nostradamus refers to as “the tyrant.” He predicted that the Slavs will “change their prince” and “raise an army in the mountains,” suggesting a guerrilla war. He speaks of “when the north pole is united” (NATO?), and there are many geographical references to the Balkans, such as Greece, Italy and the Mediterranean.
The war is linked to when the “eagle” (United States) and the “cock” (France) stand together. There also is specific reference to the time when England, Poland and Czechoslovakia (now the Czech Republic and Slovakia) “form a new alliance.” Poland joined NATO in 1999, with the other former Eastblock countries following.
Nostradamus predicted that the Allies will win, that the war will be protracted, lasting seven months, and that it may go beyond the Balkans, toward the north, but that after the war there will be “peace on earth for a long time.”
The forecasts by Nostradamus seemed to be confirmed by other seers, including Nicolaas van Rensburg, known as Siener van Rensburg, the famous South African seer who lived 1862 to 1926.
Siener van Rensburg
At the turn of the 20th Century Van Rensburg had also predicted the use of electricity, the massacre of six million Jews, the Chernobyl disaster, the rise and fall of Russia, and the European Union – in the last two instances accurately describing the flags before they were designed.
Of the third world war, Van Rensburg predicted that England would left weakened, while Germany would rise to become the world’s most powerful nation.
On when it would happen, Van Rensburg only replied that it will take place “when the ice melts.”
Further such predictions by the famous American seer Edgar Cacey are available in the book Predictions for the 21st Century.
What the experts say Nostradamus predicted about the WTC attack
“In the year of the new century and nine months, from the sky will come a great king of terror. The sky will burn at 45 degrees… fire approaches the great new city… there will be thunder… The third big war will begin when the city is burning.”
So it is quoted among rumor mongers. The facts are:
Nostradamus appears not to have made predictions about the World Trade Center attack or, at least, none that could easily be understood from the quatrains. He did not mention “the new century,” or “nine months” and New York is not at 45 degrees; the Manhattan latitude is 40° 47′ N.
What then?
Of course, not only have the “experts” on the prophets not always been correct – the seers themselves have not always been quite so accurate in their forecasts. In fact, many predictions have missed the mark.
Time will tell if the Kosovo conflict or, indeed, the World Trade Center attack had put the spark to a bigger barrel. As for the end of the world… Nostradamus predicted it to be the year 3786 or 3797, depending on which Nostradamus expert you believe.
Cryptic numerology:
After the WTC attack on 11 September 2001, Uri Geller asked everyone to pray for 11 seconds for those in need. Why?
The first plane to hit the towers was Flight 11 by American Airlines;
Flight 11 had 92 on board: 9 + 2 = 11;
Flight 77 had 65 on board: 6 + 5 = 11;
New York City – 11 Letters;
State of New York – 11th State added to the Union;
See Law of Truly Large Numbers
Nostradamus predictions on pandemics
What did Nostradamus say about pandemics? A lot, actually. Most of his quatrains deal with plagues, earthquakes, floods, droughts, wars and other disasters – but all are undated, giving only hints.
In his Epistle to Henry II (who lived from 31 March 1519 to 10 July 1559), he wrote:
Then will commence a persecution of the Churches
the like of which was never seen.
Meanwhile, such a plague will arise
that more than two thirds of the world will be removed.
Plagues are mentioned eight times in Century II, including Quatrain 6:
Near the gates and within two cities
There will be two scourges the like of which was never seen,
Famine within plague, people put out by steel,
Crying to the great immortal God for relief.
Century VIII Quatrain 17:
Those at ease will suddenly be cast down,
the world put into trouble by three brothers;
their enemies will seize the marine city,
hunger, fire, blood, plague, all evils doubled.
Nostradamus did not use the word virus and did not mention any particular virus.
“To predict is difficult; especially about the future” – Chinese proverb
End of the World predictions
Lost nuclear bombs
01/31/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: nostradamus, predictions.
You may also like -


Only place a flag is not saluted
Home » did you know » Who owns the moon?
Who owns the moon?
The only place in the universe where a flag flies all day, never goes up or comes down, never flies half-mast and does not get saluted, is the moon.
It is, of course, the American flag, the only country to have landed people on the moon even though British Interplanetary Society engineers had in 1939 designed a ship to carry people to the moon.
How many people have walked on the moon?
Since Apollo 11 landed on moon on July 20, 1969 until 1972, 12 American astronauts walked on the moon, spending 170 hours roaming over 60 miles (100 km), planting 6 flags in total. They brought home 880 pounds (400 kilograms) of soil and rock, and 30,000 photographs.
The six American flags on the moon were planted during the missions of Apollo 11,12,14,15,16,and 17. The flags of the European Union, Russia, and India are also on the moon but they are displayed on equipment or probes.
The first landing of the moon is celebrated in the festival of Evoloterra on July 20th.
Moon image NASA
Last man on the moon
The Apollo 17 crew were the last men on the moon. With Ronald Evans in the command module, Commander Eugene Cernan and scientist Harrison H. Schmitt drove 34 km (21 miles) in the lunar buggy. On December 11, 1972 they left behind a plaque that reads: “Here Man completed his first exploration of the Moon, December 1972 A.D. May the spirit of peace in which we came be reflected in the lives of all mankind.” Cernan was the last man to have set foot on another celestial body.
Last words spoken on the moon
The first words spoken on the moon, by Neil Armstrong, are well known, but what were the last words spoken from the moon?
“America’s challenge of today has forged man’s destiny of tomorrow.” – Commander Eugene Cernan, Apollo 17 Mission, December 11, 1972.
Just in case you forgot Neil Armstrong’s words (when he stepped onto the moon surface with his left foot first): “One small step for man. One giant leap for mankind.” On returning to Earth, he explained that he thought he had said “one small step for a man.”
Who owns the moon?
Planting a flag on the moon does not mean owning it or any part of it. The United Nations Outer Space Treaty (long name: Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, Including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies) of January 27, 1967 states that “outer space, including the moon and other celestial bodies, is not subject to national appropriation by claim of sovereignty, by means of occupation, or by any other means.”
Video : Apollo 17 – Last men on the moon
02/07/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: apollo, moon, neil armstrong.
You may also like -


Fresh egg will sink in water, stale one won’t
Home » food » Interesting egg facts
Interesting egg facts
Can’t remember if an egg is fresh or hard boiled? Just spin the egg. If it wobbles, it’s raw. If it spins easily, it’s hard boiled. A fresh egg will sink in water, a stale one will float.
Eggs contain all the essential protein, minerals and vitamins, except Vitamin C. But egg yolks are one of few foods that naturally contain Vitamin D. Eggs also contain choline, which is necessary for healthy cell membranes in the body. Choline stimulates brain development and function and helps preserving memory. Eggs also are good for your eyes because they contain lutein which helps prevents age-related cataracts and muscular degeneration. In fact, eggs contain more lutein than spinach and other green vegetables.
The color of the egg shell is not related to quality, nutrients, flavor, or cooking characteristics. White shelled eggs are produced by hens with white feathers and white ear lobes. Brown shelled eggs are produced by hens with red feathers and red ear lobes. Brown egg layers usually are slightly larger and require more food, thus brown eggs usually cost more than white eggs. An egg shell has as many as 17,000 pores over its surface.
A whole egg is about 3 tablespoons worth of liquid, the egg yolk measures about 1 tablespoon of liquid. Older hens tend to lay bigger eggs but double-yolked eggs are produced by younger hens whose egg production cycles are not yet synchronized. There are about 70 calories in an uncooked egg and 77 calories in a cooked egg.
China produces the most eggs, at about 160 billion per year. In the US, about 280 million hens produce more than 65 billion eggs per year. A hen can lay about 250 eggs per year.
Chicken are descendants of the red jungle fowl (gallus gallus spadiceus) that lives in Asia. The chicken is one of the first domestic animals, appearing in China around 1400 BC. The are some 150 chicken species and hundreds of chicken breeds.
What was first, the chicken or the egg?
Short answer: the chicken is the egg’s way of creating another egg.
According to the bible, the chicken came first. Genesis 1:20-22: So God created the great creatures of the sea and every living and moving thing with which the water teems, according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. God blessed them and said, “Be fruitful and increase in number and fill the water in the seas, and let the birds increase on the earth.”
Egg recall
The bacteria salmonella can be on the inside AND outside of an egg that looks normal. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention has tips on how to reduce the risk of salmonella from eggs.
Egg cook book: EGGS by Michel Roux
02/07/2010. Category: food. Tags: chicken, eggs.
You may also like -


Half world’s population seen at least one 007 movie
Home » movies » Jame Bond 007
Jame Bond 007
He is handsome, tall, drives a fast car, has an unlimited expense account, and always gets the girl. That’s just the actor. The character he portrays also has a license to kill.
James Bond debuted in Ian Fleming’s novel Casino Royale in 1953. The novel was adapted for television in 1954, featuring Barry Nelson as 007.
The first official 007 movie, Dr No, was released in 1962, starring Sean Connery.
David Niven took the lead in a spoof version of Casino Royale in 1967; it is not recognized as part of the Bond franchise.
James Bond 007
Daniel Craig
Pierce Brosnan
Timothy Dalton
Roger Moore
George Lazenby
Sean Connery
Ian Fleming
Sean Connery starred in seven Bond movies (including the “unofficial” Never Say Never Again in 1983), George Lazenby in one, Roger Moore in seven, and Timothy Dalton in two. Pierce Brosnan was issued his fourth licence to thrill in the 21th Bond movie, Die Another Day. Daniel Craig had his martini shaken, not stirred, in the 22nd Bond movie, a remake of Casino Royale. He kissed the girls in the 23rd (officially 22nd) Bond movie, Quantum of Solace, released in 2008.
In the first 22 movies, Bond has 23 vodka martinis, 6 of which he orders himself but two of those he never receives. The rest are prepared and brought to him. Most surprisingly, in his 7 appearances as Bond, Sean Connery utters the phrase “shaken, not stirred” only once, in Goldfinger. In Fleming’s novels, Bond drinks gin martinis instead of vodka martinis.
All the 007 actors are over 1,8 metres (6 feet) tall.
The 007 sign
The Bond character was said to have been based on Dr John Dee, the very first British secret agent. Dee, who lived from 1527 to 1608, was an advisor to Queen Elizabeth I. He was a brilliant mathematician, magician, philosopher, alchemist and astrologer. During his time, England was at war with Spain, and fearing spies, Dee designed the 007 code for his correspondence with the Queen. The 2 zeros indicated “for your eyes only,” and the 7 was a cabalistic, or, cryptic number. Dr Dee was not the only secret agent of the time. Seeing Spain amassing a new vast empire in the “New World” (the Americas), Queen Elizabeth secretly sent the pirate-turned-explorer Englishman Francis Drake (1540-1596) west with the added intent to harass the Spanish. It is known that Dr Dee and Drake actually met to discuss strategies.
However, Fleming explained the creation of Bond: “I extracted the Bond plots from my wartime memories, dolled them up, attached a hero, a villain, and a heroine, and there was the book.”
Ian Fleming
Ian Fleming (28 May 1908 – 12 Aug 1964) was attached to the British Naval Intelligence Division during World War II. After the war, Fleming purchased a patch of land in Jamaica and built a bungalow on it, calling it Goldeneye. It was here, in his forties, on 14 July 1952 that after three attempts the first words of the first Bond novel were created: “The scent and smoke and sweat of a casino are nauseating at three in the morning.”
The Bond name was simply borrowed from the author of Birds of the West Indies. The character M was modeled on Admiral John Godfrey, Director of Naval Intelligence Division (NID), to whom in 1939 Fleming was made personal assistant.
In the novels, James Bond and Q actually never meet. Fleming wrote about Major Boothroyd and the Q branch but never mentioned a character called Q.
Author John Gardner took over the writing of Ian Fleming in 1981 with his first novel License Renewed. Sixteen years later he relinquished the 007 pen to Raymond Benson who debuted with Zero Minus Ten and ending with his last offering called The Man With The Red Tattoo in 2002. Three years on, Charlie Higson was awarded the challenge to depict the teenager Bond in a 1930s setting in a series of 5 Young Bond books, starting with Silverfin.
Places where James Bond made love
In the first 22 movies, Bond is told 35 times that he will die. He doesn’t, of course. What he does, however, is make love 81 times:
in a hotel room (20 times),
London flat (2),
at her place (15),
someone else’s place (2),
on a train (3),
in a barn (2),
in a forest (2),
in a gypsy tent (2),
hospital (3),
in a plane (2),
in a submarine (1),
in a car (1),
on a motorized iceberg (1),
in, around, under, or by water (25 times).
The Bond Girls
Of the first 62 Bond girls, 31 were brunettes, 25 blonds, and 4 redheads. Women moaned “Oh, James!” 16 times.
From Thunderball:
Pat: “What exactly do you do?”
Bond: “Oh, I travel… a sort of licensed troubleshooter.”
The equivalent of half the world’s population have seen at least one Bond movie.
02/09/2010. Category: movies. Tags: 007, james bond.
You may also like -


The pigs of Wall Street
Home » animals » Pigs on Wall Street
Pigs on Wall Street
In the old days, sea captains kept pigs on board because they believed, should they be shipwrecked, pigs always swam toward the nearest shore.
The pig is rated the fourth most intelligent animal. Pigs are part of the order artidactyla (even toed, hoofed animals). There are more than 180 species of pigs, found on every continent except Antarctica. They come in just about any size and color, have an average lifespan of 20 years and litters from 2 to 12 piglets.
Pigs are often thought to be dirty, but actually keep themselves cleaner than most pets. They are seen laying in mud because they do not have sweat glands and constantly need water or mud to cool off.
Uncle Sam
“During the War of 1812, a New York pork packer named Uncle Sam Wilson shipped a boatload of several hundred barrels of pork to U.S. troops. Each barrel was stamped ‘U.S.‘ On the docks, it quickly became bantered about that the ‘U.S.’ stood for ‘Uncle Sam,’ whose large pork shipment looked to be enough to feed the entire army. Thus did ‘Uncle Sam’ come to represent the US Government itself.” Thus according to the US National Pork Producers Council.
Big Business
Pork is big business: it is the world’s most widely-eaten meat. It therefor is rather apt that pigs are responsible for the naming of one of the world’s leading financial centres. To stop free-roaming pigs rampaging through their grain fields, Manhattan Island residents built a long wall on the northern edge of what is now Lower Manhattan. The street that came to board the wall was named… Wall Street. (These pigs are not to be confused with the Wall Street Pigs.)
Domestication of pigs took place in China around 7500 BC. China still is the largest producer of pigs.
In Denmark, there are twice as many pigs as people.
Pigs are mentioned twice in the Bible. Sheep are mentioned 45 times, and goats 88 times.
With no pun intended, a pig started a cold war. In 1859, an American-owned pig wandered into a British-owned potato patch on San Juan Island, off the coast of Washington. The pig was shot, starting a cold war.
Is your money safe? How sound are banks?
Pig fun facts
08/01/2010. Category: animals. Tags: pigs, wall street.
You may also like -


First submarine designed in 1578
Home » vehicles » Invention of the submarine
Invention of the submarine
Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519) made sketches of a submarine and William Bourne, a British mathematician, drew plans for a submarine in 1578. But it was only in 1620 that Cornelis van Drebbel, a Dutch inventor, managed to build a navigable submarine.
Van Drebbel wrapped a wooden rowboat tightly in waterproofed leather and had air tubes with floats to the surface to provide oxygen. Of course, there were no engines yet, so the oars went through the hull at leather gaskets. Van Drebbel took the first trip with 12 oarsmen in the Thames River – staying submerged for 3 hours.
The Drebbel reconstructed. Photo by Colin Smith, CC BY-SA 2.0, Link
Military submarines
The first submarine used for military purposes was built in 1776 by David Bushnell (1742-1824) of the US. His “Turtle” was a one-man, wooden submarine powered by hand-turned propellers. It was used during the American Revolution against British warships.
The Turtle would approach enemy ships partially submerged to attach explosives to the ship hulls. The Turtle worked well but the explosives did not.
Two rival inventors from the US developed the first true submarines in the 1890s. The US Navy purchased submarines built by John P Holland, while Russia and Japan opted for the designs of Simon Lake. Their submarines used petrol or steam engines for surface cruising and electric motors for underwater travel. They also invented torpedoes which were propelled by small electric motors, thereby introducing one of the most dangerous weapons in the world.
Submarines are also called U-boats, which is short for Unterseeboot, the German word for undersea boat.
The first nuclear-powered submarine, the USS Nautilus (SN-571), was launched in 1955. In 1958 the Nautilus made the first voyage under the polar ice pack, completing the 2945 km (1,830 miles) journey in 6 days.
USS Nautilus SS-571
The first submerged circumnavigation of earth was made in 1960 by the nuclear submarine USS Triton.
02/07/2010. Category: vehicles. Tags: submarine.
You may also like -


Products that took 100 years to get to marketplace
Home » inventions » Untimely inventions – products before their time
Untimely inventions – products before their time
In 1834, Charles Babbage (1792-1871) designed the Analytical Engine, the precursor of the computer. He was unable to obtain funding for it from the government, who thought it would be worthless.
There are many examples of inventions that were way ahead of their time. So much so that some would not come into use for another thousand years and some would only come into general use almost 100 years after they were designed.
The first fax process was patented in 1843 by Alexander Bain, but fax machines went into service only in 1964. In 1888, Frank Sprague completed an electric railway, but electric locomotives were introduced only in 1895. Eugene Ely landed a plane on a boat in 1911, but aircraft carriers weren’t perfected for another 20 years.
The first parachute jump was made from a hot air balloon by Andre-Jacques Garnerinthe in France in 1793. But Leonardo da Vinci had made detailed sketches of parachutes in 1485. He also sketched studies for a helicopter, a tank and retractable landing gear. The first helicopter that could carry a person was flown by Paul Cornu in 1907. Tanks were first used during World War One in Cambrai, France in 1917. The first airplane with retractable landing gear was built in 1933. Da Vinci also suggested underwater breathing methods. Jacques-Yves Cousteau and Emile Gagnon introduced scuba diving only in 1943, 458 years later.
Although Alexander Fleming discovered penicillin in 1928, it was only in 1938 that Howard Florey and Ernst Chain found a way to produce it, demonstrating it only in 1942.
Adolph Fick first suggested contact lenses in 1888, and although two companies manufactured lenses out of glass, it wasn’t until 1948 when Kevin Tuohy invented the soft plastic lens. See invention of spectacles

Bar codes were invented by Bernard Silver and Norman Woodland in 1948. Their system used light to read a set of concentric circles, but they had to wait two decades before the advent of computers and lasers made their system practical. (However, the bar code system in use today is the Universal Product Code, introduced by IBM in 1973. The first bar coded item sold was a pack of gum in 1974.)
Modern technology… well, somewhat…
Heron of Greece suggested the used of steam power in 50 BC. But the leaders of the day thought that it would cause unemployment which may lead to unrest and the invention ran out of steam. Steam technology known to the Chinese by 800 BC. Plato, in his Hero of Alexandria of 150 BC, mentioned some 70 steam inventions. But the steam engine reappeared again only in 1698 when Thomas Savery invented a steam pump. The first practical steam engine was the atmospheric machine of Thomas Newcomen in 1701. It was used to operate pumps on coal mines. In 1769, Nicolas Joseph Cugnot drove his steam tractor, officially the first known motorcar, down a street in Paris. In 1804, English inventor Richard Trevithick introduced the steam locomotive in Wales. In 1815, George Stephenson built the world’s first workable steam locomotive. Imagine how much further developments would have been had Heron’s steam power theory been put in practice in 50 BC.
The computer was launched in 1943, more than 100 years after Charles Babbage designed the first programmable device. Babbage dropped his idea after he couldn’t raise capital for it. In 1998, the Science Museum in London, UK, built a working replica of the Babbage machine, using the materials and work methods available at Babbage’s time. It worked just as Babbage had intended.
Thomas Edison invented the phonograph in 1877. Peter Carl Goldmark invented the LP record in 1948. The Compact Disc was invented by Joop Sinjou and Toshi Tada Doi in 1979. It took the CD fifteen years to replace the LP.
The first true aircraft carrier, HMS Furious, was converted from a battlecruiser into a flush-deck aircraft carrier in 1917, and it was the prototype of all flat-tops. The first aircraft carriers designed from scratch were HMS Hermes and IJN Hosho, which both were launched in 1920. HMS Furious is the only aircraft carrier which did combat operations in both World Wars. She was scrapped in 1948.
Douglas Engelbart experimented in the 1960’s with light pens and steering wheels and a computer rat before deciding on a mouse for computer use.
02/08/2010. Category: inventions. Tags: inventors, products.
You may also like -


Guy on $10 bill shot by Vice President
Home » famous » Story of the US ten dollar
Story of the US ten dollar
Hamilton-Burr duel and the 10-dollar note
The guy on the US ten-dollar bill is, of course, Alexander Hamilton and he was killed in a duel by Vice President Aaron Burr.
Hamilton was a revolutionary war hero and leading architect of the new American government. He co-authored the Federalist Papers, considered one of the most important contributions to American political thought. As Washington’s right-hand man and the first US Secretary of the Treasury, he formulated an economic policy that got the then-new nation on its feet. 
Aaron Burr was a colonel in the Continental Army and briefly served – as Hamilton did – with Washington at Valley Forge. In the election of 1800, he was in a deadlock with Thomas Jefferson for the presidency, with 73 votes each. The election went to the House of Representatives to be decided. There Federalist votes kept the election deadlocked until the 36th ballot, when Hamilton’s influence gave the presidency to Jefferson. Burr, a Republican, became vice president.
Hamilton-Burr dual
Many at the time thought that the political mudslinging of Burr by Hamilton may have cost him the election. The animosity between the two men would continue until July 1804 when Burr challenged Hamilton to a duel, and as was customary, was accepted.
The fateful day came on July 11, 1804 at Weehawken, New Jersey.
Vice President Aaron Burr and former Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton faced off, and Hamilton was mortally wounded. He was dragged from the dueling area and died the next day.
While the nation mourned, Burr returned to complete his term as vice president but his success in the duel proved to be to his detriment. There was some talk of murder charges being brought against him, but as the rules of the duel were followed, no indictment was carried forward.
He would later go on to be charged for treason for his ill-fated attempt to establish his own empire in the South.
Aaron Burr portrait by John Vanderlyn, 1802
Aaron Burr (1756-1836) served as US Vice President from 1801-05. He disliked Hamilton, accusing him of competing for political positions and the favors of married women in New York’s high society.
Alexander Hamilton portrait by John Trumbull, 1806
Alexander Hamilton (1755-1804) was mortally wounded in a duel with Aaron Burr. Hamilton disliked Burr because the orphan Burr came from a relatively privileged background while he was the unacknowledged illegitimate son of a Jamaican planter.

US$10 note, featuring Alexander Hamilton.
Story submitted by John Nelson
02/06/2010. Category: famous. Tags: burr, dollar, duel, hamilton.
You may also like -


“Dollar” has origins in the Roman Empire
Home » money » The origin of the dollar
The origin of the dollar
A mining hole in the mountains of Bohemia produced so much silver it became the official source of coinage for the entire Holy Roman Empire.
The mine was in a valley called Joachimsthal, and the coins came to have the same name: “Joachimstalers.” Over time this became shortened to “Talers” and over more time, the American pronunciation of the word became the name for the currency that you would like to have in your pocket.
The above image is the silver coin first struck as a “Guldiner” in 1486 in Tyrol. The name “Taler” was first given to the silver coin of the same size struck in Joachimstal in Bohemia.
The $ sign
The $ sign was designed in 1788 by Oliver Pollock, a New Orleans businessman, using a combination of Spanish money symbols.
The $ sign is used in many countries other than the United States, including the use for the Argentine peso, Brazilian real, Cape Verde escudo, Chilean peso, Colombian peso, Cuban peso, Dominican peso, Mexican peso, Tongan pa’anga and Uruguayan peso.
Some countries trade their currency as dollars but with different symbols: Australia, Bahamas, Canada, Liberia and others.
Weight of $1 million
If you stack one million US$1 bills, it would be 361 ft (110 m) high and weight exactly 1 ton.
A million dollars’ worth of $100 bills weighs only 22 lb (10 kg).
One million dollars’ worth of once-cent coins (100 million coins) weighs 246 tons.
HT: Chronology of Money
02/07/2010. Category: money. Tags: dollar, silver, taler.
You may also like -


Budweiser beer named after Czech town
Home » famous » Anheuser and Busch and Budweiser beer
Anheuser and Busch and Budweiser beer
In the mid-1800s, Eberhard Anheuser was a successful manufacturer of soap and candles in St. Louis, Missouri, USA. In 1859, he financed a loan to a struggling neighborhood brewery called The Bavarian Brewery, which was started by George Schneider in 1852. When the brewery faltered again in 1860, Anheuser and a partner, William O’Dench, bought the interests of minority creditors rather than see the brewery go under. They reorganized the company and resumed production under the name E. Anheuser & Company.
The partnership
In 1857, the 18-year old Adolphus Busch, the second youngest of 22 children, immigrated to the United States from Germany to join his 3 brothers in St. Louis. Although his brother had started the John B. Busch Brewing Company in Washington, Missouri, Adolphus opted to enter into a partnership with Ernst Wattenberg to sell brewing supplies. It was through this business that Adolphus met his wife, whose father would be his future partner. Adolphus Busch and Lily Anheuser married in 1861. In 1865, the two beer companies merged, with Adolphus as equal partner with Eberhard Anheuser.
Budweiser beer
In 1876, Busch and his friend Carl Conrad, a liquor importer, developed a “Bohemian-style” lager, inspired after a trip to the region. Brewers in Bohemia generally named a beer after their town with the suffix “er.” Beers produced in the town of Plzen, for example, were called Plzners, or Pilsners. Busch and Conrad had visited another town, only 104 km (65 miles) south of Plzenalso, known for its breweries: Bömische Budweis, which became Ceske Budejovice in 1918. Beer has been brewed in Ceske Budejovice since it was founded as Budiwoyz by king Premys II Otakar in 1245. The German name for the town is Budweis. The name “Budweiser” is a locative, meaning “of Budweis.”
The beer recipes from Budweis were carried around the world – including by Busch and Conrad – and in the late 1800s there were several breweries producing beers called Budweiser. Miller and Schlitz both produced Budweisers but, as the name became so strongly associated with Anheuser-Busch, they stopped it. In the US the last other Budweiser producer was DuBois Brewing, which stopped making the brand only in the late 1970s.
The American Bud
Busch and Conrad introduced “Budweiser Lager Beer” in St. Louis, brewed by E. Anheuser Co.’s Brewing Association, and bottled and distributed by Carl Conrad. The Anheuser company was renamed Anheuser-Busch Brewing Association in 1879, and Adolphus became president the following year, a position he was to hold for 33 years. On 24 January 1883, Anheuser-Busch Brewing Association acquired the rights in the US to bottle and sell Budweiser. In 1919, the company was renamed Anheuser-Busch, the name by which it is known today. In 1997, the Anheuser-Busch annual worldwide beer volume exceeded 100 million barrels, confirming its position as the world’s largest brewer.
The Bud battle
In 1895, almost 20 years after Busch’s Budweiser was first brewed, a Bohemian company called Budejovicky Pivovar started making a beer known as Budvar, a shortened version of the brewery name. It was exported under the name Budweiser Budvar, being from Budweis.
The golden rule in business is that the one with the gold rules. Well, usually. In the battle for the Budweiser brand name there has not been a victor. A legal battle between the Buds has raged for years. According to EU regulations, a locative can be registered as a trademark only by a manufacturer residing at that place. Thus, according to EU regulations, the Czech beer is the legal bearer of the trademark “Budweiser”, or “Budejovicky.” But that’s not the only claim.
According to the German “Reinheitsgebot” (Beer Purity Regulations), the Annheuser-Busch Budweiser cannot be considered as beer because rice is used in the production process. According to the Beer Purity Regulations, beer can only be brewed from [barley] malt, hops and beer. (Wheat beers are called “weizens” in German.) Germany forbade the use of word “Bud” as trademark on everyone; the court ruled it was too close to “Bit” which the domestic Bitburger brewery uses as its trademark.
The oldest brewery in the town of Ceske Budejovice (Budweis) is Budweiser Burgerbrau, founded in 1795, and by far the most “original” of the claimants over the name Budweiser. The main brand of Budweiser Burgerbrau (Budejovice Burghers’ Brewery) is Samson, still brewed as both light and dark lager beer, bearing the labels Budweiser Bier and Budejovicky Pivo. It is said Samson was the model for Augustus Busch for his brew.
Budweiser Burgerbrau has claimed they have the right to the trademark “Budweiser” on the basis they were the oldest brewery of the German-speaking burghers of Budweis. They insist that Budejovicky Budvar was the brewery of the Czech-speakers, who thus only have the right to the trademark “Budejovicky”.
Wasssup!
The Budweisers from Budejovice has been called “The Beer of Kings” since the 16th century. Adolphus Busch is said to have turned the slogan around to “The King of the Beers”. The Czech Budweiser is imported all around Europe, sold in some countries as “Budejovicky Budvar” but known as Budweiser. In Europe it is still known as the original Budweiser. In the US and elsewhere the Anheuser-Busch Budweiser remains, if not the king of beer tastes, the king of beer sales.
Eberhard Anheuser (1805-1880)
Anheuser had a taste for success. A German immigrant to the US, he made a fortune in soap manufacturing. But when he helped finance a small brewery in 1860, he suddenly found himself in the lucrative beer business.
Adolphus Busch (1839-1913)
Busch was taken with Lily Anheuser from the start. His brother Ulrich courted Lily’s older sister Anna. On 7 March 1861, Eberhard Anheuser gave away the hands of both daughters in a double wedding ceremony with the Busch boys in St. Louis.
Adolphus Busch died in 1913, and his son August took charge of the company. When August passed away in 1934, his son Adolphus Busch III took over. He was succeeded by his brother, August A. Busch Jr in 1946. In 1974, his son August A. Busch III became the fifth-generation Anheuser-Busch president, succeeded by his son, August A. Busch IV.
This story is from Laura Lee’s “The Name’s Familiar: Mr. Leotard, Barbie and Chef Boyardee”
Many thanks to Susanna Viljanen of Finland for contributing to this story.
02/07/2010. Category: famous. Tags: anheuser, beer, budweiser, busch.
You may also like -


Paul Revere never completed his famous journey
Home » famous » Paul Revere never completed the journey
Paul Revere never completed the journey
On the evening of 18 April 1775, Paul Revere was instructed to ride to Lexington, Massachusetts to warn Samuel Adams and John Hancock that British troops were marching to arrest them, and then ride on to Concord. Riding a horse that he borrowed from his friend Deacon John Larkin, he alarmed the countryside, stopping at each house, and reached Lexington at midnight.
After delivering the message, Revere was joined by William Dawes, who had been sent on the same errand by a different route. On route to their next destination, Concord, Massachusetts, where weapons and supplies were hidden, they were joined by Dr Samuel Prescott.
At 1am, they were arrested by a British patrol, but Prescott and Dawes managed to escape. Revere was released without a horse at 2am and returned to Lexington.
However…
Patrick M. Leehey, Research Director, Paul Revere House comments as follows:
“While the information in his entry is correct, the title gives it a spin which is something of a distortion. As stated, the title suggests that Revere rode a certain distance and then gave up and went home. In fact, Revere was prevented from riding any further. He had already almost been captured just outside of Charlestown.
After he and Dr. Prescott (and Dawes, unless Dawes saw what was happening and skedaddled — Revere’s account doesn’t say) were halted on the road between Lexington and Concord, they were hearded down into a nearby meadow. Prescott said “put on!” which, meant, basically, scatter. Revere and Prescott rode quickly off in two different directions. Prescott, a local man, jumped his horse over a fence and escaped.
A Concord native, Prescott was able to make his way to Concord and warn the militia there. Revere headed in a different direction towards a section of woods, but ran into a group of British officers hiding there and was recaptured.
Thus, Revere escaped TWICE from British soldiers before he was finally corralled for good. An unarmed man, surrounded by a group of armed soldiers, there is little else he could have done.
After being interrogated for a while, Revere was eventually let go. His horse, however, was confiscated, so even if he wanted to continue on to Concord, he was prevented from doing so.
I would say Revere had a number of objectives on his express ride — warning Adams and Hancock, alarming the countryside, and warning the militia in Concord. He accomplished two out of three, and was prevented by superior force from accomplishing the third. Thus, to say he ‘never completed the journey’ seems to me to give the wrong spin.”
02/07/2010. Category: famous. Tags: paul revere.
You may also like -


Tower of Pisa has never been straight
Home » did you know » Leaning Tower of Pisa has never been straight
Leaning Tower of Pisa has never been straight
Soon after building started in 1173, the foundation of the Pisa tower settled unevenly. Construction was stopped, and was continued only a 100 year later. It then became visibly clear that the Tower of Pisa is leaning, tilting to the south.
Since regular measuring of the tower began in 1911, the top of the tower has moved 1,2 millimetres (0,05 inch) per year. Today the top of the Tower of Pisa is some 5,3m (17,4 ft) off-center.
After the bell tower of the Cathedral of Pavia collapsed in 1989, the Consorzio Progetto Torre di Pisa (Tower of Pisa Project Consortium) commissioned engineers to stabilize the Leaning Tower. Because the Tower tilted in different directions in its first years, it is slightly curved, like a banana.
Since, engineers were working on the footing of the tower rather than the structure, hoping to ease the top back about 20 cm (about 8 inches). But it means that the 800-year old tower will remain leaning.
The Leaning Tower of Pisa stands in the Piazza dei Miracoli (Miracle Square) in the town of Pisa, Italy. There are 296 steps to the top of the Leaning Tower of Pisa.
02/07/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: buildings, pisa.
You may also like -


First credit card issued in 1951
Home » money » History of credit cards
History of credit cards
Credit was first used in Assyria, Babylon and Egypt 3000 years ago. The bill of exchange – the forerunner of banknotes – was established in the 14th century. Debts were settled by one-third cash and two-thirds bill of exchange. Paper money followed only in the 17th century.
The first advertisement for credit was placed in 1730 by Christopher Thornton, who offered furniture that could be paid off weekly.
From the 18th century until the early part of the 20th, tallymen sold clothes in return for small weekly payments. They were called “tallymen” because they kept a record or tally of what people had bought on a wooden stick. One side of the stick was marked with notches to represent the amount of debt and the other side was a record of payments. In the 1920s, a shopper’s plate – a “buy now, pay later” system – was introduced in the USA. It could only be used in the shops which issued it.
The first credit card
In 1950, Diners Club and American Express launched their charge cards in the USA, the first “plastic money”. In 1951, Diners Club issued the first credit card to 200 customers who could use it at 27 restaurants in New York. But it was only until the establishment of standards for the magnetic strip in 1970 that the credit card became part of the information age.
The first use of magnetic stripes on cards was in the early 1960’s, when the London Transit Authority installed a magnetic stripe system. San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit installed a paper based ticket the same size as the credit cards in the late 1960’s.
The word credit comes from Latin, meaning “trust”. Ironically. Almost half of all credit card disputes are about internet transactions. And the default rate on the 1,5 billion credit cards in the U.S. is 13%.
Checks (cheques) came into use in 1875. But before you write one out you should consider how safe is your bank.
It will be worth your while to read the Federal Trade Commission financial educators.
So, who invented the paperclip?
02/06/2010. Category: money. Tags: checks, creditcard.
You may also like -


Man ate whole aircraft
Home » odd » Man ate aircraft
Man ate aircraft
An inquest into the death of Brit Frederick Edwards in 1933 found 200 nails, 36 staples and 3 penknives in his stomach.
But he didn’t even have half the appetite of Frenchman Michel Lotito, whose stage name was “Mr Eat All.”
Michel ate 18 bicycles, 15 shopping carts, 7 TV sets, a computer, numerous razor blades and, believe it or not, a Cessna 150 light aircraft.
The aircraft meal was not fast food, though; it took him two years, 1978 – 1980, to munch through the delight. He finished the shopping cart in four-and-a-half days.
Only bananas and hard-boiled eggs made him feel sick, he said.
His strange diets certainly was enough to get him into the Guinness Book of Records section of unusual skills.
Michel’s unique diet included bicycles and an airplane!
On average, Lotito ate 2 lb (almost a kg) of glass and metal a day:
Michel died in 2007, age 57, of natural causes.
08/02/2010. Category: odd. Tags: aircraft, metal.
You may also like -


Longest cruise liners in the world
Home » vehicles » Largest cruise ships in the world
Largest cruise ships in the world
When Ferdinand Magellan led the first circumnavigation of earth in the 16th century, his 5 ships were about 100 feet (33 metres) long each and reached 10 knots. Today, cruise liners exceed 1,000 ft (300m) in length and reach 30 knots.
The Queen Elizabeth was the longest cruise liner when she was launched in 1938, being 1,030 ft (314 metres) long (she was destroyed in a fire while being renovated in Hong Kong harbor in 1972). 
Other beauties in the big league include the Norway, at one stage the longest liner at 1,035 ft (315,5m). The Grand Princess, which cruises the Mediterranean, is, at 109,000 tonnes, one of the biggest. She accommodates 2,600 passengers. The Carnival Destiny – at 101,000 tonnes the first liner to displace more than 100,000 tonnes – entertains 3,400 passengers at a time in the Caribbean. The two 142,000 tonnes sister ships Voyager of the Seas and Explorer of the Seas are not shy of their size, either. They cruise in at 1,025ft (308m) in length. The Titanic, built for $10 million in 1911, was 883 ft (265m) long.
Not to be outdone in any manner Queen Mary 2, launched by Cunard on January 12, 2004, is 1,132 ft (345 metres) long, displaces 150 000 tonnes and accommodates 1 253 crew members at the service of 2 620 passengers in the grandest luxury. Queen Mary 2 was the world’s largest, longest, tallest ocean liner… until Royal Caribbean International’s Freedom of the Seas was launched in April 2006. Although QM2 is 20 ft (6m) longer, Freedom of the Seas comes in at 160,000 tonnes, is 1,112 ft (339m) long, 184 ft (56m) wide and has a cruising speed of 21.6 knots. She is 50 ft (15m) wider than QM2 and pampers 4,375 lucky passengers in her 1,800 rooms across 15 decks. Her sister ship, Liberty of the Seas, was launched a year later, then being considered the largest ocean liner. She features a water park, cantilevered whirlpools, and onboard surfing. The third liner in the famous Freedom Class, the magnificent Independence of the Seas, was launched in April 2008.
Cunard’s Queen Mary 2, featuring 17 decks and towering 62 metres (200 ft) above the waterline. At 72m (236.2 ft) from keel to the top of her funnel, she is one and half times higher than the Statue of Liberty.
In November 2009 Royal Caribbean introduced their Oasis Class of liners with the launch of the Oasis of the Seas – the sister ship  will be launched in 2010 – setting a new standard for cruise ships. With Gross Tonnage at 225,282, she stretches out for 1,186.5 ft (361.6m) to fit 2,700 state rooms over 16 decks for maximum 6,292 happy cruise addicts who are served by 2,290 staff. The Oasis of the Seas is longer than any US aircraft carrier and features the Central Park with 12,000 real trees and plants.
The world’s largest cruise ship
Oasis of the Seas was the largest cruise ship until the launch of her sister ship, Allure of the Seas, in November 2010. Although they share the same superstructure, the Allure of the Seas is a mere 2 inches (50 millimetres) longer. Her length is given at 1,187 ft (362m).
Titanic vs Allure of the Seas
Biggest ship
The biggest ship in the world, the oil tanker Knock Nevis (formerly Jahre Viking) is 458 metres (1,502 ft) long. A big oil tanker ships about 132 million litres (34 million gallons) of petrol. Enough to drive a car 47,000 times around the earth.
Gross Registered Tonne (GRT) is 100 cubic feet. It is a measurement of space, not weight.
Brian Jeffers contributed to this story
Updated August 2013
Bon voyage!
02/08/2010. Category: vehicles. Tags: liners, ships.
You may also like -


365 different languages in Indonesia
Home » did you know » Indonesia – largest archipelago in the world
Indonesia – largest archipelago in the world
Indonesia is the 4th most populous country in the world, with 240 million people. The 300 ethnic groups speak 365 different languages. Bahasa Indonesia is the official language. Other languages include Acehnese, Ambonese, Batak, Buginese, Ceramese, Dayak, Halmahera, Javanese, Minahasa, Sundanese, Sasak, Tetum, and Toraja.
Indonesia is the largest archipelago in the world, covering an area almost the size of Australia. But only 20% (measuring 1,919,440 km²) is land – the rest is water.
There are five major islands and about 30 smaller island groups. The main islands are: Sumatra, Java/Madura, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and Irian Jaya. In total, Indonesia comprises of 13,667 islands, of which about 6,000 are inhabited. The capital is Jakarta.
In the 1600’s, the Indonesian Moluccas islands were called the Spice Islands. Trade in spices promised great wealth to early Europeans, and it is the search for a route to these spices that led to the great voyages of Ferdinand Magellan, Christopher Columbus and others.
Some of the most interesting animals are found in the Indonesian tropical climate. The Komodo dragon (varanus komodoensis), the world’s largest lizard, grows to 3 metres (9,8 ft) long. The dwarf buffalo is one of the rarest animals in the world, and the Badak Jawa is a one-horned rhino. Indonesia is known worldwide for ornamental fish species and the Rafflesia arnoldi, the largest flower in the world, found only in certain parts of Sumatra.
Indonesia falls in the tropical zone, and has an average humidity of between 70% and 90%. The country is predominantly mountainous with some 400 volcanoes, of which 100 are active.
East Timor won independence from Indonesia in 1999, becoming an independent nation on 20 May 2002. It is a narrow, mountainous island covering 34,20 sq km (13,200 sq m), inhabited by about 4 million people who are of Papuan and Malay descent.
List of largest islands in the world
02/06/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: archipelago, indonesia, komodo, rafflesia.
You may also like -


Human head contains 22 bones
Home » did you know » Human head and brain size
Human head and brain size
The human head contains 22 bones, consisting the cranium and the facial bones. The cranium is formed by 8 bones: the frontal bone, two parietal bones, two temporal bones, the occipital bone in the back, the ethmoid bone behind the nose, and the sphenoid bone.
The face consists of 14 bones including the maxilla (upper jaw) and mandible (lower jaw). (The skull has many little holes in its base which allow the cranial nerves to travel to their destinations.)
The cranium protects the brain, which, for an average adult male weighs about 1400 gram (49 oz). The brain of Russian novelist Turgenev, weighed 2021g (71 oz), Bismarck’s brain weighed 1807g (64 oz), while that of famous French statesman Gambetta was 1294g (46 oz).
Einstein’s brain weighed 1230 gram (43.39 ounces), meaning Einstein’s brain was smaller than average.
Female average brain mass is slightly less than that of males. The largest woman’s brain recorded weighed 1742g (61 oz).
Human brain vs animal brain
An elephant’s brain weighs 5000g (176oz or 11 lb), a whale’s 10000g (352oz or 22lb). In proportion to the body, the whale has a much smaller brain than man. This seem to give man the edge, until it was discovered that the dwarf monkey has 1g of brain per 27g (0.95oz) of body, and the capuchin monkey has 1g of brain per 17,5g body, whereas man has 1 gram of brain to 44g of body. (See more animal brain sizes.)
Photographic memory
Most scientists believe that “photographic memory” is a myth. Clever people train their brains to remember well. In fact, as humans we simply do not remember things well. Of the three beings known to be able to recognize themselves in the mirror, the orangutan, the dolphin and the human, only the latter turns around and instantly cannot remember what his/her own face looks like. (Try drawing a picture of yourself without looking in the mirror:)
Brain power
The human brains consists of more than 100 billion neuro
ns (nerve cells) through which the brain’s commands are sent in the form of electric pulses. These pulses travel at more than 400 km/h (250 mph), creating enough electricity to power a light bulb. The brain consumes more energy than any other organ, burning up a whopping 20% of the food we take in.
The left side of your brain controls the right side of your body and the right side of your brain controls the left side of your body.
It is estimated that the mental capacity of a 100-year old human with perfect memory could be represented by computer with 10 to the power of 15 bits (one petabit). At the current rate of computer chip development, that figure can be reached in about 35 years. However, that represents just memory capacity, not the extremely complex processes of thought creation and emotions.
The seeing brain
One-quarter of the brains in used to control the eye. We actually see with our brains, with the eyes basically being cameras.
You’re born with 300 bones, but when you get to be an adult, you only have 206. See more fast facts about your body.
But consider this: for all the complexity of the brain, you still have only one thought at a time. Make it a positive thought.
02/07/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: brain, neurons, thinking.
You may also like -


Major earthquakes every year
Home » nature » Earthquake facts
Earthquake facts
An earthquake is caused by a sudden slip on a fault. A fault is a fracture in the crust of the earth along which rocks on one side have moved relative to those on the other side. Stresses in the earth’s outer layer push the sides of the fault together, pressure builds up and the rocks slip suddenly, releasing energy in waves that travel through the rock to cause the shaking that we feel during an earthquake.
Earthquakes tend to be concentrated in narrow zones. There are 7 major crustal plates on earth, about 50 miles (80 km) thick, all in constant motion relative to one another, moving at the speed at which your fingernail grows, at between 10 and 130 mm (from less than one half to 5 inches) per year.
Number of earthquakes per year
It is estimated that there are several million earthquakes in the world each year. Many of these earthquakes go undetected because they occur in remote areas, mostly under the sea, or have very small magnitudes.
Seismicity of the Earth 1900-2013 – USGS
The USGS Earthquake Info Center locates about 20,000 earthquakes each year (about 50 per day). On average, about 60 earthquakes per year are classified as significant, with up to 19 classified as major.
A significant earthquake is one of magnitude 6.5 or higher or one of lesser magnitude that causes casualties or considerable damage. Major earthquakes have a magnitude larger than 7.0.
In August 1999, an earthquake registering 7.4 on the open ended Richter Scale hit Turkey, killing more than 15,000 people. The next month, an earthquake registering 7.6 hit Taiwan. Later the same month, an earthquake registering 7.4 hit Mexico. In November, Turkey was hit again by an earthquake that registered 7.2.
Large earthquakes that originate from the sea bed result in tsunamis, causing huge waves to travel 500 mph (800 km/h) or more toward coasts. In 2004, the largest ever such tsunami killed more than 227,000 people in 14 countries along the Indian Ocean. It was estimated to have released more energy than 20,000 atomic bombs.
On January 12, 2010 an earthquake of magnitude 7.0 occurred 10 miles off the coast from Port-Au-Prince, Haiti, killing more than 200,000 people. The earthquake did not, however, came as a surprise to seismologists who predicted the fault slip just a week earlier. Governments and people often ignore the predictions of earthquakes.
The largest earthquake ever recorded occurred in Chile in 1960: it had a magnitude of 9.5. See the list of largest and deadliest earthquakes.
2 basic types of earthquakes
There are 2 basic types of earthquakes:
A strike-slip earthquake occurs when the rock on one side of a fault slides horizontally past the other.
In a dip-slip earthquake, the fault is at an angle to the surface of the earth and the movement of the rock is up or down.
Did you know? There are more earthquakes in Alaska than in California.
02/07/2010. Category: nature. Tags: earthquakes.
You may also like -


Mathematical decimal system introduced in 4BC
Home » did you know » Mathematical decimal system introduced in 4BC
Mathematical decimal system introduced in 4BC
On September 23, 1999, NASA scientists lost the $100 million Mars Climate Orbiter because they instructed the craft in imperial (inches and feet) instead of metric (metres) measurements. It sent the probe, which was set up for metric data, off course and burning up in the Mars atmosphere.
The first decimal system was introduced in the 4th Century BC by the Sumerians of Mesopotamia, to whom the invention of writing is credited. They based their numerical system on powers of 60 subdivided into multiples of 10. It was from this system that Sumero-Babylonians developed the time system that we use today: each hour is divided into 60 minutes, which are divided into 60 seconds.
However, they did not have a symbol for zero, which was introduced by Arabians only toward the end of the first millennium BC. It is thought that the zero could have been devised by Indian Hindu mathematicians because the concept of nothing was important in their early religion and philosophy.
Metric system introduced into Europe
Simon Stevin
In 1202, Italian mathematician Leonardo of Pisa – better known as Fibonacci – explained the decimal system to his European colleagues in his Book of the Abacus. Fibonacci’s father was a customs officer in the North African town of Bugia, so Fibonacci grew up with the Moor education of the decimal system. English mathematician John Halifax would try to promote the decimal system to his countrymen in 1253. But it was only in the 16th Century that Simon Stevin, a quartermaster in the Dutch Army, presented the Western world a user-friendly way to convert to decimal fractions in his book “The Tenth” published in 1585.
Standardization of the meter (metre)
In 1670, Gabriel Mouton, a theologian and mathematician from Lyon, France proposed the general use of the decimal system and suggested a standard linear measurement based on the length of the arc of one minute of longitude on the Earth’s surface and divided decimally (by ten). A “metre” was defined as 1/10,000,000 of the distance on the earth’s surface between the equator and either pole. Later the meter was redefined as the distance between 2 scratches on a bar of platinum-iridium alloy. In 1960, the meter was established in terms of an atomic standard, redefined in wavelengths of light.
The metric system was given the official symbol SI for Systeme International d’Unites, the “modernised metric system.”
Decimal system used in most countries
The decimal system is used in most countries, but not the USA. The system was made legal (but not mandatory) in the US by the Metric Act of 1866, and the US also was a signatory of the Treaty of the Metre in 1875. The US Congress passed the Metric Conversion Act of 1975 (Public Law 94-168) and established the US Metric Board – also see US Metric Association – but did not set a target date for metric conversion. However, US companies are gearing toward the metric system, with all 4 major motor companies converting to the metric standard.
A study by Richard Phelps of the Pelavin Research Center of the American Institutes for Research declares that a transition to metric usage in the US would be a major factor in correcting the poor performance by US students in math and science.
The computer industry also uses the decimal system: your computer operates on the binary calculations of 1 and 0.
Standardization of the inch
Interestingly, standardization of the inch for worldwide use occurred only in 1958. (The inch was standardized worldwide as 25.4 millimeters exactly.) Prior to that the United States, Great Britain, and Canada each had their own definition of the inch, and in each case the inch was defined in terms of metric units, the only set of internationally-accepted measurement standards. A problem still exists for the foot, where the international foot (based on the 25.4 mm inch) and the survey foot (based on the 25.40005 inch) are both in use. Over 100 miles they differ by 32 cm, or over one foot.
The mile comes from the Latin “mille passus”, based on the Roman Legion’s 1,000 paces.
“Decimal” is the Latin word for “ten.”
The word “metre” was adopted only in 1793 by the French Academy of Science, derived from the Greek word “metron”, meaning “a measure.” The metric system was adopted officially in France in 1799.
02/04/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: decimal, fibonacci, stevin.
You may also like -


70% of earth’s dryland affected by desertification
Home » nature » Deserts and desertification
Deserts and desertification
About 3,6 billion of the world’s 5.2 billion hectares of useful dryland for agriculture has suffered erosion and soil degradation. In more than 100 countries, more than 1 billion people are affected by desertification, forcing people to leave their farms for jobs in the cities.
Desertification is devouring more than 20,000 square miles of land worldwide every year. Desertification affects 74% of the land in North America. In Africa, more than 2.4 million acres of land (73% of its drylands) are affected by desertification.
Desertification takes place in dryland areas where the earth is especially fragile, where rainfall is nil and the climate harsh. The result is the destruction of topsoil followed by loss of the land’s ability to sustain crops, livestock or human activity. The economic impact is horrendous, with a loss of more than $40 billion per year in agricultural goods and an increase in agricultural prices.
Causes of desertification
Climatic changes can trigger the desertification process, but human activities frequently are the proximate cause.
Over-cultivation exhausts the soil.
Deforestation removes trees that hold the soil to the land.
Overgrazing of livestock strips the land of grasses.
According to a UN study, about 30% of earth’s land – including the 70% of dryland – is affected by drought. Every day, about 33,000 people starve to death.
Desertification creates conditions that intensify wildfires and stirring winds, adding to the tremendous pressure to earth’s most precious resource, water, and, of course, the animals dependent on it. According to the World Wide Fund for Nature, the world lost about 30% of its natural wealth between 1970 and 1995.
Dust from deserts and drylands is blown into cities around the world. Dust from Africa reaches Europe through the Pasat wind, and even reaches US cities. Dust particles, which are less than 2,5 millionths of a metre in size, are inhaled, causing health problems and have been shown to boost death rates.
Areas effected by desertification
Desert encroaching Nouakchott – Photograph by Georg Gerster
Deserts are encroaching cities. In the featured photograph, Sahara dunes tower over Nouakchott, capital of Mauritania, like a big hungry monster. Just 5,000 years ago the Sahara was covered with grasses and shrubs.
More than half the countries in the world – thus more than 100 countries, mainly in Africa, Asia and Latin America – are effected by desertification.
Desertification can be stopped, but unfortunately usually is brought to public attention when the process is well underway. The United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification was established to address the issue.
02/07/2010. Category: nature. Tags: desert.
You may also like -


World’s first video arcade game
Home » technology » World’s first video arcade game
World’s first video arcade game
The first video game was invented by Willy Higginbotham. Willy was no teenage computer wizkid, however. In the early 1940s he worked on advanced radar displays for B28 bombers and went on to work for the Manhattan Project where he designed the timing mechanism for the first atomic bomb. In 1958, bored by the displays of the Brookhaven National Labs annual open-day exhibition, Willy designed a tennis game simulation, the world’s first video game. It was called Tennis For Two. Willy did not take out a patent but even if he had the royalties would have been paid to the US government. 
Game development on main frame computers continued through the years, with Spacewar! being one of thefirst and certainly one of the most known games. Launched in 1962, it was programmed on a DEC PDP-1 by Steven Russell.
The first game console was called the Brown Box, created by Ralph Baer in 1966 to control a video home console ping-pong game. Baer sold the console to Magnavox Odyssey and went on to design the first game light gun for the Shooting Gallery game.
The first coin-operated video arcade game, Galaxy Game, was launched in September 1971 by Bill Pitts and Hugh Tuck. However, it was beaten to the commercial market by Computer Space, launched two months later by Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney. In November 1972 Bushnell launched PONG for his Atari company. It would become the first significantly successfull coin-operated video arcade game. Atari would continue with releases, including the famous Asteroids shooting game (pictured), legandary amongst ardent arcade gamers.
The Woz, breakout, and jail break
Before Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak created the Apple computer in 1976, they designed a popular arcade game for Atari called Breakout. By then, Steve “the woz” Wozniak was already famous as a white-hat hacker, bypassing phone systems – known as phone phreaking – to make make free long distance calls.
The woz went on to concentrate on computers but it is rather apt that the company he co-owns returned to the phone market in such a big way in the form of the iPhone, launched in July 2007. One can only smile that the title of their early game resembles the terminology for hacking the iPhone; jail break.
The other game guys
During this time of exciting arcade game development, another famous computer personality had other programs on his mind. In his early years Bill Gates (b. 1955) formed a company to sell a computerized traffic counting system to cities, making $20,000 its first year. Business dropped sharply when customers learned Gates was only 14 years old. By the time he was 17, Gates had partnered with Paul Allen to form a new venture and, when he was 20, they launched Microsoft (at first spelled with a hyphen: Micro-Soft). It was this company that would create the most played computer games – PC, not arcade – of all time: the card games that come pre-installed on Windows operating systems.
All said and done, none of the above mentioned computer geniuses developed the very first coin operated system or the very first graphical computer game. The latter was created in 1952 by Alexander S Douglas. It was, and still is, called OXO, also known as Noughts and Crosses, or simply as a Tic-Tac-Toe game. The first coin-operated system of any kind was developed in the first century by Hero of Alexander – it was used to dispense holy water.
04/26/2010. Category: technology. Tags: arcade, asteroids, coins, game.
You may also like -


Sargasso Sea without coastline
Home » nature » Sargasso Sea without a coastline
Sargasso Sea without a coastline
The Sargasso Sea is in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, between the West Indies and the Azores, covering some 2 million square miles (3 million sq km). Jules Verne wrote about it in “Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea”.
The Sargasso Sea is encircled by the The Gulf Stream and the North Equatorial Current, causing the oval-shaped sea to move in a slow, clockwise drift. The water is exceptionally blue, with a high salt content.
Its warm waters are exceptionally clear and blue, and filled with seaweed. Early navigators becalmed in the sea’s still waters mistakenly believed their ships were tangled in the seaweed. They named the sea “sargaco”, the Portuguese word for grape, after the seaweed’s bulbous floats.
The Sargasso Sea is also known as “the floating desert”. Although about one-third of the Atlantic’s plankton is produced here, the Sargassum lacks the nutrients to attract commercially valuable fish. But many small marine animals, including tiny crabs, shrimp and octopuses, live on and among the sargassum, the rootless weed. Deeply connected to the weeds, many would sink and perish if they lost their grip. The Sargasso Sea is 5km (3 miles) deep, thus the sargassum grow by budding.
The Sargasso also is an international meeting place for eels. Drawn by unknown forces, the snakelike fish come from Europe, the Mediterranean and the United States to mate, spawn and die. From there, their larvae make the long journey back to continental waters.
Video : Genomics pioneer Craig Venter on the ocean’s biodiversity, including the 2,000 photoreceptor genes found in the Sargasso Sea
Book: A Sea within a Sea
02/07/2010. Category: nature. Tags: sargasso, sea.
You may also like -


Ilyushin-76TD world’s largest waterbomber
Home » vehicles » World’s largest water bomber and heli firefighters
World’s largest water bomber and heli firefighters
Earth is getting hotter in many areas. The 2010s was the warmest decade since tracking began in 1880. Global temperature, in general, keeps increasing, creating conditions that intensify wildfire danger, by warming and drying out vegetation and by stirring the winds that spread fires.
Fast fires are hard to contain and likely to expand into residential areas. Already about 1 billion people live in areas prone to natural disasters.
The United States suffer from one of the highest fire death rates in the industrialized world, with more than 2 million fires reported each year. More than 4,000 Americans, including 100 firefighters, lose their lives and another 26,500 are injured annually as the result of fire. 
Water bombers
Fire Departments around the world call on “water bombers” to fight large fires. Carrying huge amounts of water and retardants, they actually are more cost-efficient than most other fire fighting methods.
One of these water bombers is the Erickson Helitanker, a converted Sikorsky S-64 Skycrane. It can deliver 2,650 gallon (10 000 litres) of water in one drop, and, using a ram scoop hydrofoil, refill from any water source 18 inches (45 cm) deep in about 45 seconds. The Helitanker can precision deliver 30,000 gallons (110,000 litres) per hour.
The Helitanker’s water cannon attached to the tank forces a stream of water or foam mix at 300 gallons (1 140 liters) per minute over a range of 200 ft (~60 meters).
Fixed wing water bombers
Other aircraft are used too, such as the C-130, Martin Mars, DC-6, Beriev Be-200 and Canadair CL-415 Superscooper (Bombardier 415).
Canadair CL-415 Superscooper (Bombardier 415)
Image Wikipedia
One of the largest and fastest of the water bombers is the turbofan jet Ilyushin-76TD (Il-76).
The Iluyshin IL-76 water bomber can reach a fire anywhere in the world within 12 hours. Carrying 11,000 gallons (42 000 litres) of water and fire retardants – 4 times as much as a C-130 – it can, in one run, dump enough water to cover 6 double-wide football fields, or an area 0.7 miles (1,1 km) in length. 
Outfitted with a twin-tank system capable of carrying 135,000 pounds of liquid, it can be filled and be ready for takeoff in 15 minutes.
The Boeing 747 Supertanker, introduced in 2009, has a capacity of 20,500 US gallons (17,000 Imperial gallons or 77 600 litres). It is the fastest water bomber, able to fly at 600 knots.
Tanker comparisons
Tanker, Gallons, Knots
747 Supertanker 20,500 gal 600 kn
Il-76 11,000 gal 400 kn
Martin Mars 7,200 gal 165 kn
KC-97 4,500 gal 210 kn
Beriev Be-200 3,170 gal 380 kn
C-130 3,000 gal 250 kn
DC-6 3,000 gal 235 kn
CL-415 Superscooper 1,600 gal 194 kn
Helitanker 2,000 gal N/A
Environmental News Network
US Forest Service
Book: World’s most heroic firefighters
02/06/2010. Category: vehicles. Tags: firefighters, ilyushin.
You may also like -


One of the Seven Wonders still survives
Home » trivia » The seven wonders – old, modern and new
The seven wonders – old, modern and new
The Great Pyramid of Giza is the only one of the Seven Wonders of the World that still survives. Can you name the other six wonders?
They are:
1) The Hanging Gardens of Babylon, which were built on the banks of the Euphrates river by King Nebuchadnezzar II.
2) The gigantic gold statue of Zeus was built by the sculptor Pheidias at Olympia.
3) The temple of Artemis was erected in the Asia Minor city of Ephesus in honor of the Greek goddess of hunting and wild nature.
4) The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus was a huge tomb constructed for King Maussollos, Persian satrap of Caria.
5) The Colossus of Rhodes was a massive statue erected by the Greeks in honor of Helios the sun-god.
6) The Lighthouse of Alexandria was built by the Ptolemies on the island of Pharos.
The Great Pyramid of Giza was built near the ancient city of Memphis for Pharaoh Khufu in the period of the Fourth Dynasty, between 2613 and 2494BC. The Greeks referred to it as the Pyramid of Cheops. A true wonder, it is immense: according to Mysteries of the Unknown, it covers a ground area of 13.1 acres (32,4 hectares), composed of some 2.3 million limestone blocks average two-and-a-half tonnes each, enough stone to build a wall of foot-square cubes two-thirds around the globe at the equator, a distance of 16,600 miles (26 500km).
The oldest statue in the world is the Great Sphinx of Egypt. Carved out of limestone, it stands 65 ft (19,8 metres) high and is 240 ft (73 metres) long.
Modern Wonders
A list of the seven wonders of the modern world was compiled after World War One (after 1918). The motorcar was omitted from the list, instead naming:
(1) the radio; (also see History of Radio)
(2) the telephone;
(3) the airplane; (also see “Were the Wright Brothers the first to fly?“)
(4) radium;
(5) anaesthetics and antitoxins;
(6) spectrum analysis;
(7) X rays.
An updated list undoubtedly will include the car, television, computer, nuclear energy and nanotechnology.
New Seven Wonders
At a declaration on 07/07/07 in Lisbon, Portugal, after worldwide online polling, SMS and telephone voting the New Seven Wonders were declared as being:
1) The Great Wall, China
2) Petra, Jordan
3) Christ Redeemer, Brazil
4) Machu Picchu, Peru
5) Chichén Itzá, Mexico
6) The Roman Colosseum, Italy
7) The Taj Mahal, India
02/06/2010. Category: trivia. Tags: wonders.
You may also like -


1 hour 6 minutes per day spent on traveling
Home » vehicles » World’s worst traffic conjestion and travel
World’s worst traffic conjestion and travel
The amount of time that people spend on travel has been consistent at 1,1 hours per person per day in all societies.
The average distance traveled is 7400 miles (12 000 km) per year. In total, the world population travels more than 16.6 trillion miles (23 trillion km) per year, 53% of which is by car, 26% by bus, 9% by rail, 9% by high-speed transport such as airplanes, and 3% by bicycle, boat and other means.
Traffic volume
It is estimated that, due to developments in high-speed public transport, travel time will drop to only 12 minutes per person per day by 2050. Of the world traffic volume, 35% will be by car, 20% by bus, 41% by high-speed transport, and 4% by rail.
Which is good news. Currently, traffic congestion leads to huge negative economic and environmental impact across the world. Road congestion in the UK costs the UK economy 15 billion a year. It costs the US $100 billion a year.
In Seattle, Washington for instance, a driver spends an average of 59 hours stuck in traffic each year. In the greater Seattle area there are more cars than people; each household makes an average of 10 motorcar trips a day.
According to Sierra Club, “American cars and trucks account for 20 percent of the world’s petroleum consumption.”
The incentive for using the automobile is convenience, but the ultimate price is air pollution and higher taxes. Various studies have shown that higher population density result in higher cost per person. The health and environmental impact of modern transport is tremendous. Carbon-based petrochemical particles are drawn deep into our lungs, causing stress to our cardiopulmonary system, and starving the body of oxygen.
Cars are the largest single source of air pollution and ozone depletion. On a global basis, today’s transport sources are estimated to be responsible for 40 to 60% of the ozone precursor emissions of NOx and hydrocarbons; 70 to 80% of CO emissions; 85% of benzene pollution; 4% of SOx and about 1/3 of all CO2 emissions, in the process wiping out forests, lakes, waterways and crops, affecting animals and humans alike.
Traffic congestion: Top 15 US cities stuck in traffic
Worst traffic congestion ever
The world’s worst traffic congestion occurs during the summer on the road from Paris to Toulouse, France. In 2000 the jam was 375 miles (604km) long; in 2001 holiday makers jammed up for 410 miles (661km).
It is estimated that by 2050, on average North Americans will travel 8750 miles (14 000km) per year by car, which means they’ll be driving as much as now.
The US has the most highways, but European roads are busier. In Europe, cars travel more than 600 miles (1 000 km) per road per year, compared to an average 500km per road in the US. Belgium has the most roads per square kilometre in the world.
So, (no pun intended) take a hike. Alternatively you can use Google’s public transport trip planner.
02/07/2010. Category: vehicles. Tags: traffic, travel.
You may also like -


Latest sightings of the Loch Ness monsters
Home » animals » Sightings of the Loch Ness monster
Sightings of the Loch Ness monster
The first written account of the Loch Ness Monster, or Nessie, was made by the Viking Adamnan in 565AD. He described how St. Columba heard about the monster killing a man, and then rowed to the center of the loch to order the beast to stop such attacks in the future. Ever since that time, legend has it, Nessie has never repeated its misdemeanor.
But Nessie is still there – according to a number of people who saw her.
Nessie sightings
In 1933 alone, there were 5 sightings of Nessie. In June 1963, Nessie was even filmed, but at such a distance that not much of it can be seen on the film.
In September 1995 Lorna Taylor saw Nessie’s head, neck and body rising from the loch, but was seconds too late with her camera to get a good picture.
The last sightings of Nessie were on 14th September 1999, February 2002 and in May 2007.
The most famous picture of Nessie was taken by Dr Robert Kenneth Wilson in 1934. In 2001, the doctor’s friend who was with him that famous day claimed the picture to be a hoax. However, Dr Wilson stuck to his story until his death in 2001.
Nessie, the Loch Ness monster
How big is Nessie?
From the many reports, it is guesstimated that Nessie’s body is about 16 ft (5 metres) long. With head and tail, she would be about 3 times the size of a Nile crocodile.
Nessie is protected by the 1912 Protection of Animals Acts of Scotland. With good reason. Nessie has quite an economical impact: she is worth $40 million annually to Scottish tourism industry.
Loch Ness
Loch Ness is the largest of three lochs located in the Great Glen of the Scottish Highlands. The loch is 37 km (23 miles) long and 1,6 km (1 mile) in width, and averaging 182 m (600 ft) in depth.
Celebrity of the Day
Video : Scotland TV reports sighting of Nessie, May 2007
08/01/2010. Category: animals. Tags: loch ness, nessie.
You may also like -


Bird that barks instead of sing
Home » birds » Bird that barks instead of sings
Bird that barks instead of sings
The Antpitta avis canis Ridgley is a bird that looks like a stuffed duck on stilts and barks like a dog. The bird was discovered by ornithologist Robert S. Ridgley in the Andes in Ecuador in June 1998. Thirty of these long-legged, black-and-white barking birds were found. It apparently had gone undetected because it lives in remote parts and, of course, doesn’t sing. The size of a duck, it is one of the largest birds discovered in the 20th Century.
On the other hand, there are dogs that do not bark! The basenji, a smallish dog with a silky copper coat, does not bark. Instead, it yodels when it get excited. Wild dogs like the African Wild Dog also do not bark.
The Antpitta avis canis Ridgely – named after its discoverer Robert S Ridgley.
Photo: Academy of Natural Sciences. Also see antpitta.com
Basenji – Avuvi voiceless dog
More info at Wikipedia
02/03/2010. Category: birds. Tags: antpitta, basenji.
You may also like -


World’s tallest buildings
Home » construction » World’s tallest buildings
World’s tallest buildings
It’s a status symbol for the countries that have them built and there seem to be no end in the quest to build the world’s tallest buildings.
Known as skyscrapers, they differ from towers in that these buildings offer residential and/or office and have floors all the way up.
1. Burj Khalifa: 160 floors – 800 m (2,640 ft) – Dubai, UAE – completed 2008.
Burj Khalifa Dubai being constructed. Completed Jan 2010.
2. Shanghai Tower: 128 floors – 632 m (2,073 ft) – Shanghai, China – completed 2015.
3. Abraj Al-Bait Clock Tower: 120 floors – 601 m (1,971 ft) – Mecca, Saudi Arabia – completed 2012.
4. Ping An Finance Centre; 115 floors – 599 m (1,965 ft) – Shenzhen, China – completed 2016.
5. Goldin Finance 117: 115 floor – 596.6 m (1,957 ft) – Tianjin, China – completed 2019.
6. Lotte World II: 107 floors – 512 m (1,680 ft) – Busan, South Korea – completed in 2016.
7. One World Trade Center: 104 floors – 541.3 m (1,776 ft) – New York City, USA – completed 2014.
8. CTF Finance Centre: 111 floors –  530 m (1,739 ft) – Guangzhou, China – completed 2016.
9. Tianjin CTF Finance Center: 98 floors – 530 m (1,739 ft) – Tianjin, China – completed 2018.
10. China Zun: 108 floors – 528 m (1,732 ft) – Beijing, China – completed 2004.
11. Taipei 101 Tower: 101 floors – 509 m (1,670 ft) – Taipei, Taiwan – completed 2004.
12. Shanghai World Financial Center: 101 stories – 492 m (1,614 ft) – Shanghai, China – completed 2008 – Architects Kohn Pedersen Fox.
13. International Commerce Centre: 118 floors –  484 m (1,588 ft) – Hong Kong, China- completed 2010.
14. Wuhan Greenland Center: 97 floors – 475.6 m (1,560 ft) – Wuhan, China – completed 2019.
15. Central Park Tower: 99 floors – 472 m (1,550 ft) – New York City – completed 2020. (Tallest residential building in the world.)
16. Lakhta Center: 86 floor – 462 m (1,516 ft) – Saint Petersburg, Russia – completed 2018. (Tallest building in Europe.)
17. Landmark 81: 81 floors – 461.2 m (1,513 ft) – Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam – completed 2018.
18. Changsha IFS Tower T1: 88 floors – 452.1 m (1,483 ft) – Changsha, China – completed 2017.
19. Petronas Towers 1 & 2:
The tallest buildings in the world from 1998 to 2004 and by 2017 still the tallest twin towers in the world are the Petronas Towers 1 & 2 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. An impressive site, each stands 452 m (1,483 ft) tall, each with 88 stories floors. It was completed in 1998.  The architects are Cesar Pelli.
Petronas Towers to the right, Kuala Lampur Tower on the left.
Skyscraper Day is celebrated every year on September, 3rd
List of Tallest towers
List of Highest bridges
Source : Emporis
Updated 2020.
02/05/2010. Category: construction. Tags: construction, tallest.
You may also like -


Eating with fork considered scandalous
Home » trivia » Eating with a fork once considered scandalous
Eating with a fork once considered scandalous
Forks were first used in the Middle Ages, but eating with one was considered scandalous. In the 11th Century, when a Greek princess died shortly after introducing forks at her wedding with a Venetian Doge (chief magistrate) Domenico Selvo, it was perceived as divine punishment.
While forks were a regular feature on the tables of nobles in Italy since the 11th Century, and used in France in the 14th Century, it was introduced in England only in 1611 by Thomas Coryat through his book “Coryat’s Curdities Hastily gobbled up in Five Months Travels in France, Savoy, Italy, &c.” Even then, he was mocked about promoting the use of forks and called “Furcifer,” meaning fork-bearer.
The upper classes of Spain were using forks in the 16th Century, as could be told from a large assortment of forks that were recovered from the wreck of La Girona, which sank off the coast of Ireland in 1588.
In 1630, Governor Winthrop of Massachusetts had the first and only fork in colonial America.
So what did people eat with before using forks? They used wooden spoons, knifes and, of course, their hands.
Persian two-tined forks, circa 9th Century
Forks, mostly being two-tined, were known as “split spoons”. Although there are examples of four- and five-tined forks from the before the 1600s, the four-tined fork became popular only in the late 1800s.
02/05/2010. Category: trivia. Tags: forks.
You may also like -


The real story of April Fool
Home » trivia » April Fool’s Day
April Fool’s Day
It is widely proclaimed that April Fool’s Day originated in France in 1562, or thereabouts, when Pope Gregory replaced the Julian calender with the Gregorian calender in the Julian calender month of April. The day of introduction of the Gregorian calender was made the first day of January.
Some people hadn’t heard about the change in the date, so they continued to celebrate the New Year’s Day, but it being 1st April. So, others called them “April fools.”
The fact is that Pope Gregory XIII ordered Thursday 4 October 1582 to be the last day of the Julian calendar. The next day was Friday 15 October. April Fool’s Day is an April Fool’s tale.
The April Fool’s Day tradition in France includes poisson d’avril (“April’s fish”), attempting to attach a paper fish to the victim’s back without being noticed.
“April 1st: This is the day upon which we are reminded of what we are on the other three-hundred and sixty-four.” – Mark Twain
02/06/2010. Category: trivia. Tags: aprilfool.
You may also like -


Origins of Easter and Easter bunny
Home » religion » History of Easter, the Easter bunny and Easter eggs
History of Easter, the Easter bunny and Easter eggs
The ancient Anglo-Saxons celebrated the return of spring with a carnival commemorating their goddess of offspring and of springtime, Eostre. The word carnival possibly originated from the Latin ‘carne vale’ meaning “flesh, farewell” or “meat, farewell.” The offerings were rabbits and colored eggs, bidding an end to winter.
As it happened, the pagan festival of Eostre occurred at the same time of year as the Christian observance of the Resurrection of Christ and it didn’t take the Christian missionaries long to convert the Anglo-Saxons when they encountered them in the 2nd century. The offering of rabbits and eggs eventually (in the 8th century, it is thought) became the Easter bunny and Easter eggs.
Prior to 325 AD, Easter was variously celebrated on different days of the week, including on a Friday, Saturday or Sunday. In that year, the Council of Nicaea was convened by emperor Constantine. It issued the Easter Rule which states that Easter shall be celebrated on the first Sunday that occurs after the first full moon on or after the vernal equinox.
The “full moon” in the rule is the ecclesiastical full moon, which is defined as the 14th day of a tabular lunation, where day 1 corresponds to the ecclesiastical New Moon. It does not always occur on the same date as the astronomical full moon.
The ecclesiastical “vernal equinox” is always on 21st March but Easter Sunday is the Sunday following the Paschal Full Moon, the first full moon occurring on or after the spring equinox.
Easter observances
Easter follows a period of fasting called Lent, a period of six weeks. Lent begins on Ash Wednesday, a Christian holy day of prayer and fasting, and ends on Good Friday.
The week leading up to Easter is called the Holy Week or Passion Week. It includes Palm Sunday (the day Jesus entered Jerusalem), Maundy Thursday (commemorating the Washing of Feet and the Last Supper, where Jesus met with his disciples to observe Passover), and Good Friday, commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus.
Easter Sunday is celebrated as the day Jesus rose again. This is the day you’ll get Easter eggs.
The resurrection of Jesus is then – from Easter Sunday onward – celebrated for 50 days during a time called Easter season or Eastertide.
In many countries, Easter Monday is a public holiday (but not in the United States). In the Eastern Orthodox Church and Byzantine Rite Catholic Churches, Easter Monday is also called “Bright Monday” or “Renewal Monday.”
The Resurrection of Christ by Nathan Greene
Fish on Good Friday
For centuries, Christians have abstained from eating meat (or meat from any warm-blooded animal) on Good Friday to acknowledge and do penance for the death of Jesus. Catholics are required to abstain from eating meat on Ash Wednesday and each Friday in Lent.
Fish, on the other hand, are cold-blooded and therefor is the traditional dish on Good Friday.
Fish are given symbolic meaning several times in the Gospels and the “sign of the fish” or the “Jesus fish” – in the form of two intersecting arcs, known as the ichthys – was a secret symbol used by early Christians.
Hot cross buns
The word bun is derived from the Saxon word “boun” (pronounced “bo-han’) which means “sacred ox.” At the ancient Celtic feast of Eostre, an ox was sacrificed with the ox’s horns becoming a symbol for the feast. They were carved into the ritual bread, thus “hot cross buns.”
Initially, the cross on the buns represented the moon, the heavenly body associated with the goddess Eostre, and its four quarters. Today, the cross on hot cross buns represents the cross of Christ and therefor hot cross buns traditionally are eaten on Good Friday.
Image links to video How to Bake Hot Cross Buns in 6 Easy Steps
But since hot cross buns they are so delicious and so popular, they are enjoyed throughout the Holy Week. Some supermarkets start stocking them the day after Christmas while some stock them throughout the year.
Wishing you a Happy Easter!
02/08/2010. Category: religion. Tags: easter, holiday.
You may also like -


Nobody knows who invented spectacles (eyeglasses)
Home » did you know » Nobody knows who invented spectacles
Nobody knows who invented spectacles
Roman tragedian Seneca (4 BC-AD 65) is said to have read “all the books in Rome” by peering through a glass globe of water. A thousand years later, presbyopic monks used segments of glass spheres that could be laid against reading material to magnify the letters, basically a magnifying glass, called a “reading stone.” They based their invention on the theories of the Arabic mathematician Alhazen (roughly 1000 AD).
Yet, Greek philosopher Aristophanes (c. 448 BC-380 BC) knew that glass could be used as a magnifying glass. Nevertheless it was not until roughly 150 AD that Ptolemy discovered the basic rules of light diffraction and wrote extensively on the subject. (The laws of diffraction was formulated much later by Snellius, between 1600 and 1620.)
Venetian glass blowers, who had learned how to produce glass for reading stones, later constructed lenses that could be held in a frame in front of the eye instead of directly on the reading material. It was intended for use by one eye; the idea to frame two ground glasses using wood or horn, making them into a single unit was born in the 13th century.
In 1268, Roger Bacon made the first known scientific commentary on lenses for vision correction. Salvino D’Armate of Pisa and Alessandro Spina of Florence are often credited with the invention of spectacles around 1284 but there is no evidence to conclude this.
The first mention of actual glasses is found in a 1289 manuscript when a member of the Popozo family wrote: “I am so debilitated by age that without the glasses known as spectacles, I would no longer be able to read or write.”
In 1306, a monk of Pisa mentioned in a sermon: “It is not yet 20 years since the art of making spectacles, one of the most useful arts on earth, was discovered.” But nobody mentioned the inventor.
In the Middle Ages wearing spectacles signified knowledge and learning. Painters of the time often included spectacles when portraying famous persons even when depicting people who lived before the known invention of spectacles. On numerous paintings the religious teacher Sofronius Eusebius Hieronymus (340 – 420 AD) is portrayed with a lion, a skull and a pair of reading glasses. He is the patron saint of spectacle makers.
Did you know?
The oldest known lens was found in the ruins of ancient Nineveh and was made of polished rock crystal.
In 1718, Edward Scarlett, a London optician, put arms on eyeglasses to hold them on the ears.
About one person in 30 is color blind. More men than women are affected by color blindness.
Healthy eyes are so sensitive to light that a candle burning in the dark can be detected 1,6km (1 mile) away. The human eye can distinguish about 10 million different colors. There currently is no machine that can achieve this remarkable feat.
Eat more carrots
It actually is true that eating carrots can help you see better. Carrots contain Vitamin A, which feeds the chemicals that the eye shafts and cones are made of. The shafts capture black and white vision. The cones capture color images.
02/05/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: spectacles.
You may also like -


World’s first circumnavigation
Home » vehicles » First to sail around the world
First to sail around the world
The Age of Discovery was led by the the great sea adventurers in their search for a route to spice markets of the Far East when the eastern Mediterranean were blocked by powerful rivals.
When Vasco da Gama sailed around the Cape of Good Hope to reach India in 1498, the Portuguese concentrated their efforts to the south and east. The Spanish, who agreed to divide the world in two with the Portuguese in the Treaty of Tordesillas on 7 June 1494, sailed west. They were not aware of the American continents and no one knew there was a Pacific Ocean.
The New World
Christopher Columbus (1451-1506), an Italian who had moved to Spain, theorized that since the earth was a sphere, a ship could reach the Far East from the opposite direction. He convinced the monarchs to sponsor his search, setting sail in August 1492 with a fleet of three ships, the Niña, the Pinta, and the flagship Santa Maria.
After 10 weeks, he sighted an island in the Bahamas, which he named San Salvador. Thinking he had found islands near Japan, he sailed on until he reached Cuba (which he thought was China) and Haiti. He encountered dark-skinned peoples whom he called “Indians” because he assumed he had been sailing in the Indian Ocean.
Columbus made 3 more voyages to the New World which he thought was the East, in 1493, 1497 and 1502, exploring Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Jamaica, and Trinidad. He never reached North America, and until he died, thought he had reached Asia.
Replica of the Santa Maria. Photo via Library of Congress
North America already discovered
Columbus did not know but Viking ships reached North America almost 500 year before he had set sail.
Sailing from Iceland in mid-990, Biarni Heriolfsson was blown off course and located an unknown land. He did not explore or name it. In 1002 Leifr Eiriksson backtracked Biarni’s course and reached the coast of present-day Canada.
Eiriksson then sailed south and discovered an island he called Vinland (present-day Newfoundland) where he established a colony and traded for 3 years with the native population known as Skraelings. The Skraelings eventually forced them to leave, but the Vikings continued to sail to Canada for timber.
“New Found Land”
In 1497, King Henry VII granted John Cabot (1450-1498) a charter to explore. On 2 May Cabot and a crew of 18 left Bristol, England in a small ship called The Matthew.
Cabot sailed farther north than Columbus did, out of the way of the Spanish territories. On 24 June the crew sighted land. Cabot was convinced he had found an island off the coast of Asia and named it “new found land.” It was the first documented landing in Newfoundland since the Viking voyages.
Cabot returned to England on 6 August 1497, and although he brought no spices or treasure back with him, he was the first to map out the North American coast.
Replica of Cabot’s The Matthew.
Photo by Carolyn Eaton via The Matthew of Bristol
Naming “America”
Amerigo Vespucci
The Portuguese-Spanish dividing line ran through the Atlantic with Spain gaining lands to the west, including the Americas. Brazil was granted to Portugal, who gained eastern Africa and India. But without accurate measurements, the question on the exact line persisted.
In 1501, King Manuel I of Portugal dispatched fleets to Brazil, one of the officers being the Italian Amerigo Vespucci. He was among the first explorers to report that South America was a continent, not an island, calling it the “New World”.
An excellent mapmaker, Vespucci sold copies of his maps to German cartographer Martin Waldseemuller, who, when reproducing it in 1507, gave Vespucci credit by writing his first name on the South American continent. Thus the southern continent became known as “America”.
The first circumnavigation
The first circumnavigation of the globe was led by Ferdinand Magellan, who was born in Oporto, Portugal in 1480.
In 1505, Magellan enlisted in the navy where he learned seamanship and naval warfare under Portuguese viceroys in India. In 1509, he took part in the Battle of Die, which gave Portugal supremacy over the Indian Ocean. For 7 years he traded from Cochin, China and Malacca.
Like Columbus before him, Magellan believed he would reach the Far East by sailing west. Snubbed by the Portuguese king, Magellan convinced the Spanish king, Charles I that at least some of the Spice Islands lay in the Spanish half of the undiscovered world.
In September 1519 Magellan set sail with 280 men on 5 ships (San Antonio, Santiago, Trinidad, Victoria, and Concepcion) on a voyage fraught with hardship and mutiny.
An Italian nobleman on the ship, Antonio Pigafetta, kept a diary of the voyage. They crossed the equator on 20 November 1519 and sighted Brazil on 6 December. Magellan thought it unwise to go near the Portuguese territory since he was sailing under the Spanish flag and anchored near present-day Rio de Janiero on 13th December. They were greeted by Guarani Indians who believed the white men to be gods and showered them with goods.
After stocking up, they sailed south, reaching Patagonia (Argentina) in March 1520. The Santiago was sent to explore further south and was lost in a gale.
In August, Magellan decided it was time to move further south to look for a passage through to the east. By October they sighted a strait. During the passage, the captain of San Antonia turned his ship back toward Spain, taking most of the fleet’s provisions.
Into the vast Pacific
The remaining 3 ships emerged from the strait to the Pacific by end-November. Magellan thought the Spice Islands were a short voyage away but they sailed for 96 days without sighting land. Conditions aboard the ships were abominable. The crew survived on sawdust, leather strips, and rats. Finally, in January 1521, they stopped off at an island to feast.
In March, they reached Guam. The Armada de Maluco reached the Philippines (which Magellan named San Lazaro) on 15 March 1521. He anchored at Suluan on 16 March and went to Homonhon on 17 March.
On 28 March 1521 Magellan and his fleet made landfall at Mazaua. After befriending an island king, Magellan foolishly got involved in a tribal war and was killed in battle on 27 April 1521.
Sebastian del Cano took command of the ships and 115 survivors. Because there were not enough men to crew 3 ships, he burned the Concepcion.
They sailed to the Moluccas (Spice Islands) in November, loading valuable spices. To guarantee that at least one ship would make it back to Spain, the Trinidad went east across the Pacific, while the Victoria continued west.
The Trinidad was seized by the Portuguese and most of her crew were killed.
The Victoria managed to elude the Portuguese in the Indian Ocean and rounded the Cape of Good Hope. On 6 September 1522, almost three years from the day it began its historic journey, the Victoria and 18 crew members (Pigafetta among them) arrived in Spain. They were the first to circumnavigate the globe.
When the Victoria’s spices were auctioned, the income was high enough to cover all the expenses of the voyage and even produce profit.
Nao Victoria replica, built 1992. Img Wikipedia Victoria
Vicente de Jesus contributed to this article as follows:
“On March 28, 1521 Magellan and his fleet made landfall at Mazaua, a mystery island that is the object of a controversy parallel to the Columbus first landfall question. My studies show Mazaua is in 9 degrees N. A team of geologists, geomorphologist and archaeologist was hired in year 2000 to search for the isle and have discovered a most improbable thing: an isle that has been fused with mainland Mindanao at Butuan City. We hope to excavate and find authentic remnants of Magellan’s visit. If indeed this was Mazaua, there’s no question there will be material proof of Magellan’s having been to this isle.”
Image shows the replica of the flagship Trinidad, the ship in which Ferdinand Magellan led the first circumnavigation of the world.
The correct Portuguese name of Ferdinand Magellan is Fernao do Magalhaes. The family coat of arms of Magalhaes are Argent, three fesses chequy Gules and Or. Fernao wasn’t the head of the main branch but the family line continues to this day.
The second circumnavigation
The second circumnavigation of the globe was accomplished by the pirate-turned-explorer Englishman Francis Drake (1540-1596).
Seeing Spain amassing a new vast empire, Queen Elizabeth I secretly sent Drake to the west, with the added intent to harass the Spanish. On 13 December 1577 Drake sailed from Plymouth, England with 6 ships under his command.
In September 1578 five of the ships turned back at the Strait of Magellan while Drake sailed on in the Golden Hind.
By June 1579 he had reached the coast of present-day California and sailed as far north as the present-day United States-Canadian border. He then turned southwest and crossed the Pacific Ocean in 2 months. He voyaged through the Indies, across the Indian Ocean, and around the Cape of Good Hope.
With the Golden Hind laden with gold and spices, he sailed into Plymouth on 26 September 1580, the first captain to circumnavigate the globe.
Captain Cook
Another famous circumnavigation was that of James Cook. He sailed from England on 25 August 1768 aboard the Endeavour with 94 crewmen and scientists. On 11 April 1769, they reached Tahiti. On government orders, they sailed south, reaching New Zealand on 6 October. By April 1770, Cook explored and documented Australia.
The Endeavour then made its way to Java, sailing on past the Cape of Good Hope.
On 13 July 1771 Cook sailed into Dover. Following the historic 3-year journey, he was appointed Naval Commander by King George III.
First solo circumnavigation
Joshua Slocum, who was born in Nova Scotia in 1844, became an American citizen and Captain Slocum at age 25. On 24 April 1895, at 51-year old, Slocum sailed out of Boston in his 11m (37ft) sloop Spray, a decrepit oyster dredger that he had rebuilt himself. Slocum crossed the Atlantic toward the Suez Canal.
In Gibraltar, he was warned of pirates in the Mediterranean. So, he started back across the Atlantic, and headed down the Brazilian coast, through the hellish Strait of Magellan. He faced deadly currents, rocky coasts and heavy seas as he sailed around Australia, the Cape of Good Hope, and across the Atlantic.
On 27 June 1898, more than 3 years and 74000km (46,000 miles) later, Joshua Slocum entered Newport, Rhode Island, as the first man to sail around the world solo.
Joshua Slocum’s Spray. Img Wikipedia Spray
Later, planning a voyage up the Amazon, Slocum set sail from Vineyard Haven on November 14, 1909, but he was lost with his ship.
First around with only one stop
The honor of being the first to sail around the world alone with only one stop went to Francis Chichester (1902-1972).
In 1966, the 64-year old Chichester sailed his 16m (53ft) ketch Gypsy Moth IV from England.
The steering mechanism broke 3 700km (2,300 miles ) from Australia. Soon after leaving Sydney, the Gipsy capsized but righted itself. Around the Cape Horn, Chichester faced 15m (50ft) high waves. But he was not a man to step back from a challenge. In 1960, he was the winner of the first single-hand transatlantic race. Chichester also made the world’s first solo long distance flight in a seaplane (England to Australia).
On 28 May 1967, after 226 days at sea, he was welcomed back by a half-million people at Plymouth, England.
First solo non-stop circumnavigation
From Wikipedia: “On 14 June 1968 Robin Knox-Johnston left Falmouth, UK in his 32-foot (9.8-meter) boat Suhaili, one of the smallest boats to enter the Sunday Times Golden Globe Race. Despite losing his self-steering gear off Australia, he rounded Cape Horn on 17 January 1969, 20 days before his closest competitor Bernard Moitessier, who subsequently abandoned the race and sailed on to Tahiti. The other seven competitors dropped out at various stages, leaving Knox-Johnston to win the race and become officially the first man to circumnavigate the globe non-stop and single-handed on 22 April 1969, the day he returned to Falmouth.”
Robin Knox-Johnston, Suhaili, first solo non-stop circumnavigation.
Photo robinknox-johnston.co.uk
Around alone
Today, sailing single-handedly non-stop around the world grabs the imagination more than ever.
Chay Blyth, nicknamed “the man of steel” became one of few when he sailed against the winds around the world from east to west aboard the ketch British Steel in 1971, completing the voyage in 302 days.
Two years later Frenchman Alain Colas aboard his trimaran Manureva circumnavigated around the 3 great capes, taking only 129 days to complete the voyage.
The first woman to sail solo around the world was Krystyna Chojnowska- Liskiewicz, starting the journey in the Canary Islands on February 28, 1976 and completing it there 401 days later, on April 2, 1978.
In 1979, 29-year-old Naomi James braved the seas for 272 days to become the first woman to circumnavigate the globe via Cape Horn, the classic “Clipper Route.”
The first woman to circumnavigate the world single-handed non-stop was Kay Cottee, completing the 189-day feat on June, 5 1998.
On 21 May 2008, Adrian Flanagan became the first person to complete a single-handed, vertical circumnavigation, covering the 31 000 miles in 405 days 18 hours 50 minutes.
Australian Jon Sanders circumnavigated the globe 9 times single-handedly, the ninth time in 2015 at age 75. He also achieved a remarkable non-stop triple circumnavigation between May 1986 and March 1988, covering 131,535km (71,023 nautical miles) – the longest distance ever sailed continuously by any vessel.
His other records, according to his Wikipedia page, includes:
First solo circumnavigation trip east to west mostly sailing through tropics (1970).
The first single-handed sailor to remain continuously at sea twice around the world (1981 – 1982).
First circumnavigation of Antarctica, circling the continent twice in 1981 – 1982.
First single-handed sailor to round the five southern most Capes twice on one voyage.
First single-handed sailor to round the five southern most Capes twice.
Longest distance continuously sailed by any yacht: 48,510 miles (78,070 km).
Longest period alone at sea during a continuous voyage: 419 days: 22 hours: 10 minutes.
The circumnavigation contests
Circumnavigation had become the rage, as with the Whitbread race, now known as the Volvo Ocean Race.
In 1982, British company BOC Gasses launched the BOC Challenge single-handed race around the world, with stops: “One person, One boat, Around the world.” It was renamed AroundAlone in 1998 but continued as the Velux 5 Oceans in 2006. The race is managed by Clipper Events, who also handle the Clipper Race.
In 1989, two times winner of the BOC Challenge, Frenchman Philippe Jeantot, launched the idea of a single-handed non-stop race around the world. The Vendee Globe is extreme, the “official supplier of legends.” The finish line literally is a world away.
The Barcelona World Race, since 2007, is a non-stop around the world yacht race along the Clipper route for a crew of two.
Factoids
In 120AD, Egyptian mathematician and astronomer Ptolemy (Claudius Ptolemaeus) invents a number of projections whereby an area on the curved surface of the Earth can be represented on a flat surface. His geography is introduced in Europe in 1406 and with the invention of the printing press in 1450 his plans are published and widely accepted.
Shipping company Cunard Laconia introduced the first around-the-world cruise on the Laconia in 1922. More about cruise liners.
The quest to become the first to circumnavigate the earth in a hot air balloon
It took 175 days to complete the first circumnavigate of earth by air
World Sailing Speed Records
World on Water sailing news and documentaries on YouTube.
Contributions to this story made by Susanna Viljanen.
02/04/2010. Category: vehicles. Tags: amerigo verspucci, columbus, joshua slocum, magellan, sailing.
You may also like -


Why is there no ham in a hamburger?
Home » food » Why is it called a hamburger although it contains no ham?
Why is it called a hamburger although it contains no ham?
During a trip to Asia in the early 1800s, a German merchant – it is said – noticed that the nomadic Tartars softened their meat by keeping it under their saddles. The motion of the horse pounded the meat to bits. The Tartars would then scrape it together and season it for eating.
The idea of pounded beef found its way back to the merchant’s home town of Hamburg where cooks broiled the meat and referred to it as it as Hamburg meat.
German immigrants introduced the recipe to the US. The term “hamburger” is believed to have appeared in 1834 on the menu from Delmonico’s restaurant in New York but there is no surviving recipe for the meal. The first mention in print of “Hamburg steak” was made in 1884 in the Boston Evening Journal.
The honor of producing the first proper hamburger goes to Charlie Nagreen of Seymour, Wisconsin, USA. In 1885 Nagreen introduced the American hamburger at the Outgamie County Fair in Seymour. (Seymour is recognized as the hamburger capital of the world.)
However, there is another claim to that throne. There is an account of Frank and Charles Menches who, also in 1885, went to the Hamburg, New York county fair to prepare their famous pork sausage sandwiches. But since the local meat market was out of pork sausage, they used ground beef instead. Alas, another hamburger.
The first account of serving ground meat patties on buns – taking on the look of the hamburger as we know it today – took place in 1904 at the St. Louis World Fair. But it was many years later, in 1921, that an enterprising cook from Wichita, Kansas, Walt Anderson, introduced the concept of the hamburger restaurant. He convinced financier Billy Ingram to invest $700 to create The White Castle hamburger chain. It was an instant success. The rest of the history, we might say, belongs to McDonald’s.
And, no, a hamburger does not have any ham in it. Well, it’s not supposed to. Hamburger meat usually is made of 70-80% beef and fat and spices.
National Hamburger Day on December 21.

Bacon cheeseburger, New York style!
Why is a hotdog called a hotdog?
In 1987, Frankfurt, Germany celebrated the 500th birthday of the frankfurter, the hot dog sausage. Although, the people of Vienna (Wien), Austria will point out that their wiener sausages are proof of origin for the hot dog. (By the way, ham, being pork meat, is found in hotdogs.) In “Every wonder why?” Douglas B. Smith explains that the hotdog was given its name by a cartoonist.
A butcher from Frankfurt who owned a dachshund named the long frankfurter sausage a “dachshund sausage,” the dachshund being a slim dog with a long body. (“Dachshund” is German for “badger dog.” They were originally bred for hunting badgers.) German immigrants introduced the dachshund sausage (and Hamburg meat) to the United States. In 1871, German butcher Charles Feltman opened the first “hotdog” stand in Coney Island, selling 3,684 dachshund sausages, most wrapped in a milk bread roll, during his first year in business.
In the meantime, frankfurters – and wieners – were sold as hot food by sausage sellers. In 1901, New York Times cartoonist T.A. Dargan noticed that one sausage seller used bread buns to handle the hot sausages after he burnt his fingers and decided to illustrate the incident. He wasn’t sure of the spelling of dachshund and simply called it “hot dog.”
National Hotdog Day is held on July 23.
Burgers and sausage
Recipes for placing meat between slices of bread date back to Roman times. However, that was for steak, not minced meat. Thus, the steak burger is older than the hamburger!
Sausage is one of the oldest forms of processed food, having been mentioned in Homer’s Odyssey in the 9th century BC.
Tasting it
The tongue is a muscle with glands, sensory cells, and fatty tissue that helps to moisten food with saliva. You cannot taste food unless it is mixed with saliva. For instance, if salt is placed on a dry tongue, the taste buds will not be able to identify it. As soon as saliva is added, the salt dissolves and the taste sensation takes place.
There are 4 basic tastes plus umami. The salt and sweet taste buds are at the tip of the tongue, bitter at the base, sour along the sides, and umami along the center of the tongue.
02/07/2010. Category: food. Tags: hamburger, hotdog.
You may also like -


You blink 15 000 times a day
Home » trivia » You blink 15 000 times a day
You blink 15 000 times a day
The muscle that lets your eye blink is the fastest muscle in your body. It allows you to blink 5 times a second. On average, you blink 15 000 times a day. That’s about 10 times per minute, or more than five million times a year. Women blink more than men.
Jean-Dominique Bauby, a French journalist suffering from “locked-in” syndrome, wrote the book “The Driving Bell and the Butterfly” by blinking his left eyelid – the only part of his body that could move.
Animals blink too, of course. Some bird species, usually flightless birds, have only a lower eyelid, whereas pigeons use upper and lower lids to blink. Fish and insects do not have eyelids – their eyes are protected by a hardened lens.
To care for your eyes, eat carrots. They really do make you see better. Vitamin A is known to prevent “night blindness,” and carrots are loaded with Vitamin A. Deficiency of Vitamin A actually is a significant world problem, comparable to that of protein deficiency and second only to caloric deficiency.
Carrots also contain fiber, potassium, vitamin C, and beta-carotene, which may reduce the risk of heart disease and cancer. Carrots have zero fat content. One carrot provides more than 200% of recommended daily intake of Vitamin A.
Carrots were first cultivated in 500 BC in the Mediterranean regions. The first carrots were purple, white, and yellow. They were introduced in Europe in the 1600s. Orange carrots – the ones we know today – were first grown in Japan in the 17th century, and later made popular by the Dutch.
Mel Blanc, who played the voice of Bugs Bunny, was allergic to carrots.
07/01/2010. Category: trivia. Tags: blink, carrots, eyes.
You may also like -


10 good uses for salt
Home » food » 10 good uses for salt
10 good uses for salt
Just a pinch of it and it’s worth it. We’re talking salt here. Used throughout human history, mentioned often in the Bible, ubiquitous and cheap. Mined from salt rocks and extracted from sea water, salt is… well, the “salt of the earth.” You can’t live without it healthily. At the same time, you can’t live healthily with too much of it. Get the balance right – in your food and in your live – and salt is worth it’s own weight.
10 surprising good uses for salt
1. Deter ants
Sprinkle salt in doorways, on window sills and anywhere else ants use to sneak into your house. It’s a sure way to keep them out!
2. Kill grass and weeds growing in cracks in your driveway
Tired of weeding your driveway? Sprinkle salt on the grass and pour very hot water over it. Not only is this a highly effective way to kill unwanted plants, it’s also eco-friendly and cheap.
3. Say goodbye to fleas
If your dogs have fleas, simply wash their doghouse and blankets in salt water. If you’re worried your dogs may have brought fleas into your house, simply sprinkle your carpets lightly with salt and then brush it in. Leave it for 12 hours and vacuum thoroughly.
4. Pick up a dropped egg
If you drop an egg on the kitchen floor, sprinkle salt on the mess and leave it there for 20 minutes. You’ll be able to wipe it right up.
5. Clean up oven spills quickly
If a pie or casserole bubbles over in the oven, pour a handful of salt on top of the spill. It won’t smoke, smell and, most importantly, will bake into a crust that makes the mess easier to clean once it’s cooled.
6. Clean brown spots off your iron
Simply sprinkle salt on a sheet of waxed paper, slide the iron across it and rub lightly with silver polish. Your iron will look like brand-new in no time.
7. Remove stains from your coffee pot
Fill it with 1/4 cup of table salt and a dozen ice cubes. Swish the mixture around, let it sit for half an hour, fill it with cold water and rinse. Your coffee pot will look brand new.
8. Keep your windshield frost-free
Dip a sponge into salt water and rub it on windows, and they won’t frost up even when the mercury drops below zero.
9. Shell nuts more easily
Soak pecans and walnuts in salt water for a few hours before shelling them. Doing so will make it easier to remove the meat.
10. Drip-proof candles
If you soak new candles in a strong salt solution for a few hours, then dry them well, they won’t drip when you burn them.
And some more uses
11. Tame a wild BBQ
Toss a bit of salt on the flames caused by fat dripping from the grill. It’ll reduce the flames and calm the smoke without cooling the coals (like water would).
12. Soothe a bee sting
Wet the sting right away, then cover it with salt.
13. Stop a grease fire
Pouring salt on top of a grease fire will smother it. Completely.
14. Cooking tip
If a soup or stew is too sweet, add a pinch of salt. (See more cooking tips.)
Source: Salt Institute
07/13/2011. Category: food. Tags: salt.
You may also like -


More than 20,000 brands of beer
Home » food » Beer brands, types, styles and brewing
Beer brands, types, styles and brewing
Worldwide, 20,000 brands of beer are brewed in 180 styles, from ales, lagers, pilsner and stouts to bitters, cream ales and iced beers.
Beer has been a popular beverage for a long time. Babylonian clay tablets show detailed recipes of beer making in 4300 BC. Beer was also brewed by the ancient Chinese, Assyrians and Incas.
An Egyptian text of 1600 BC gives 100 medical prescriptions using beer. A few years ago, the New Castle Brewery in England brewed 1,000 bottles Tutankhamun Ale from a 3,200-year old recipe found in the sun temple of Queen Nefertiti.
Commercial beer making was established in 1200 AD in present-day Germany. In 1506, the German Purity Law is issued, specifying that beer ingredients must only be water, barley, wheat and hops. Bottling of beer started in 1605.
Making beer
Brewing is the process of changing water and grain into beer through a yeast catalyst. The quality of the water is extremely important. Hard water produce a bitter ale, soft water produce bitter lager. Barley or hops, or a combination of them, is used for the grain.
Getting dry grain ready for fermentation is called malting. The grain is steeped in water until it sprouts. The sprouting or germination is not allowed to end naturally but is interrupted either by drying or roasting in kilns.
Barley
Barley has been a grain of choice for thousands of years. The longer the roasting of the malted barley, the darker the beer. Barley, or wheat beers have a sweet taste.
Hops
Hops are herbaceous climbing vines and look like a cross between pine cores and artichokes. The bitter, dry flavor of hops counterbalance the sweetness of malt.
Yeast
Sugars in the malted grains are converted into alcohol by yeast. Different yeast ferment sugars into different flavors. For ales, top fermentation yeast is used, while bottom fermentation yeast is used for lagers.
The beer making process starts by germinating the grain, then steeping the resulting malt in hot water to get the wort. Base wort contents means the percentage of wort in the beer before fermentation. The alcohol contents is roughly one third of the base wort contents.The wort is boiled (brewed) and hops are added. After brewing, fermentation starts by adding yeast. After fermentation, the wort is drown into tanks where it is allowed to condition or age. Yeast and hops are sometimes added in a secondary fermentation process.
Ales and Lagers
Ales, stouts and several other types of brews, like porter, are top-fermented. The top-fermentation yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, usually produces stronger alcohol contents than the bottom-fermentation yeast, Saccharomyces carlsbergi, but the latter produces more quality-consistent brew. Lagers are bottom-fermented.
Ales usually are heavily hopped, and include bitters, brown ales, cream ales, mild ale, pale ale, India pale ale, barley wine and several other types. There are two types of the aboriginal ale still brewed in Europe. They are Belgian “lambic” and Finnish “sahti”, which is brewed from rye malt. They are brewed on wild yeast and spontaneous fermentation. Both have very distinct tastes.
The word “lager” is German and means “storage”, which refers to the lager (storage) fermentation. The main fermentation of both ales and lager are done on the similar temperature for 7-14 days. After that time the ale, depending on the type, may be ready for bottling. With lagers, this is only the start. After the main fermentation the beer is pumped into lager (storage) tanks with temperature some 10 deg C lower than room temperature. It is then let to mature and ferment for several weeks, usually 6-10 weeks. At 270 days, the longest lager fermentation is for that of Budejovicky Budvar brewery’s Bud Strong.
Best taste
The best taste usually is acquired at an alcohol contents of 4.7% ethanol per volume. Less than that results in a beer with a bland taste. More than that and the higher alcohols (butanol, pentanol etc) become overpowering and spoils the taste.
The strongest beer type by alcohol content is doppelbock, which is usually 8%-10% ethanol by its volume content. The strongest beer brand in production is German “Eisbock”, with some 14% ethanol by volume.
Ice beer is produced by freezing the brew and filtering the ice crystals, increasing the alcohol content. This process was already known in the Middle Ages to “cold-distil” brandy from wine, and the ancient Chinese produced rice hooch that way. The Canadians adopted the cold-distillation method for ice beer.
Beer factoids
The oldest brewery in Munich, the Augustiner brewery, was founded in 1294, when, on the order of the bishop of Freising, an Augustinian monastery was established at the Haberfeld, just outside the gates of the city. Munich was famous for its breweries operated by monks.
A true pilsner comes from the Pilsner, Czech Republic. The original pilsner was Pilsner Urquell (Plzensky Prazrod), meaning “The Original Spring of Pilsen.” It still is one of the most popular pilsner in the world.
The first beer brewery in the US opened in Manhattan in 1623. But the oldest continuing brewery, running since 1829 is Yuengling in Schuylkill County in Pennsylvania.
The first Octoberfest was held in 1810 in Munich, Germany. It started as a wedding celebration.
Löwenbrau of Munich was founded 1373.
The Czech Republic has the highest per capita beer consumption in the world, at 155 litres (40 gal).
Sake, the Japanese rice brew, is closer to beer than wine by its production method.
The English word “brewer” refers to a male beer-maker; “brewster” to a female.
Beer and ale volumes
4 gills = 1 pint
2 pints = 1 quart
4 quarts = 1 gallon
9 gallons = 1 firkin
2 firkins = 1 kilderkin
3 kilderkins = 1 hogshead
2 hogsheads = 1 butt
International Beer Day is celebrated on the first Friday of every August.
Many thanks to Susanna Viljanen of Finland for contributing to this story.
02/06/2010. Category: food. Tags: beer, pilsner.
You may also like -


92 nuclear bombs lost at sea
Home » war » Lost nuclear bombs
Lost nuclear bombs
The very first bomb that the Allies dropped on Berlin in World War II killed the only elephant in the Berlin Zoo, it is said. The NATO attack on Serbia in 1999 (the Kosovo war) killed more animals than people.
“Smart” weapons, such the Tomahawk missile is supposed to hit a postage stamp at 300km or more (200 miles or more). But only two out of thirteen actually hit the target. During the Bosnia war, one skimmed over a farm house a few miles off target, straight up a track, through bushes, and exploded in the farmer’s field, killing seven sheep, one cow and a goat. The farmer kept the missile nosecone as a souvenir. 
To err is human. To really mess things up you need a computer
Man’s worst invention
On October 5, 1960, an early-warning system warned the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) of a massive Soviet nuclear missile strike approaching the United States. What happened is that a fault in a computer system had removed two zeros from the radar’s ranging components, detecting the missile attack at 4 000km (2,500 miles) away. The radar was actually detecting a reflection from the moon, located 400 000km (250,000 miles) away.
On June 3, 1980, a massive Soviet missile attack was again registered by computers. 100 nuclear-armed B-52s were immediately put on alert. A computer fault was detected in time, but three days later the same error occurred and again the bombers were put on alert. The problem was later traced to the failure of an integrated circuit in a computer, which was producing random digits representing the number of missiles detected.
On January 10, 1984, Warren Air Force Base in Cheyenne, Wyoming, recorded a message that one of its Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missiles was about to launch from its silo due to a computer malfunction. To prevent the possible launch, an armoured car was parked on top of the silo.
The history of nuclear weapon accidents is as old as their introduction
The US Department of Defense (DoD) first published a list of nuclear weapon accidents in 1968 which detailed 13 serious nuclear weapon accidents between 1950-1968. An updated list released in 1980 catalogued 32 accidents. At the same time, documents released by the Navy under the Freedom of Information Act cited 381 nuclear weapon incidents between 1965 and 1977.
A number of nuclear cases involve ships or submarines colliding at sea or, in some cases, submarine nuclear power units becoming unstable and the subs having to be abandoned. According to Greenpeace No Nukes there have been more than 120 submarine accidents since 1956. The most recent incident, in August 2000, was the loss of the Russian nuclear submarine Kursk in the Barents Sea. The Kursk is the seventh nuclear submarine lost, five of them Russian, two American. There are 92 known cases of nuclear bombs lost at sea.
The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty was established in 1968, yet there are more than 23,000 nuclear weapons ready for firing.
French nuclear test, Mururoa atoll, French Polynesia, 1971.
Nuclear terms
Nuceflash: any accidental or unauthorised incident involving a possible detonation of a nuclear weapon.
Broken Arrow: the seizure, theft, loss or accidental detonation of a nuclear weapon or component other than war risk.
Bent Spear: any significant nuclear weapon incidents other than accidents or war risk detonations.
Dull Sword: a nuclear weapon incident other than “significant” incidents.
Faded Giant: any nuclear reactor or radiological accidents involving equipment used or in custody of the Navy.
When bombs started falling in Belgrade in 1999, most of the pregnant animals in the zoo aborted their young or delivered prematurely. The bombs hit out power and water supplies, leaving the sea lions and polar bears to suffer from exposure. Prince, a 300kg (660 lb) Bengal tiger was so disturbed that he began chewing off his own paws.
02/09/2010. Category: war. Tags: bombs, nuclear.
You may also like -


A diamond will break if you hit it with a hammer
Home » did you know » Diamond facts
Diamond facts
A diamond is the hardest natural substance on earth, but if it is placed in an oven and the temperature is raised to about 763 degrees Celsius (1405 degrees Fahrenheit), it will simply vanish, without even ash remaining. Only a little carbon dioxide will have been released.
Diamonds are formed over a period of a billion or more years deep within earth’s crust – about 150km (90 miles) deep – and is pushed to the surface by volcanoes. Most diamonds are found in volcanic rock, called Kimberlite, or in the sea after having been carried away by rivers when they were pushed to the surface.
A diamond is 58 times harder than the next hardest mineral on earth, corundum, from which rubies and sapphires are formed. It was only during the 15th century that it was discovered that the only way to cut diamonds was with other diamonds. Yet, diamonds are brittle. If hit hard with a hammer, a diamond will shatter or splinter.
The largest diamond on Earth
The world’s largest non-carbonado diamond was the Cullinan, found in South Africa in 1905. It weighed 3,106.75 carats uncut. It was cut into the Great Star of Africa, weighing 530.2 carats, the Lesser Star of Africa, which weighs 317.40 carats, and 104 other diamonds of nearly flawless color and clarity. They now form part of the British crown jewels.
The Cullinan was three times the size of either of the next largest diamonds, the Lesedi La Rona (1111 carat – discovered in Botswana in 2015) and the Excelsior (970 carat – discover in South Africa in 1893).
Cullinan Diamond, 0,62kg (one and a quarter pound) uncut, discovered in 1905
The world’s largest documented polished diamond – unearthed in 1986, also in South Africa – is the Unnamed Brown called the Golden Jubilee Diamond. It weighs 545.67 carats and was cut down from a 755.5 carat rough diamond. It took an international team of expert cutters 3 years to complete the masterpiece. It is owned by the king of Thailand.
Golden Jubilee Diamond, discovered in 1986
Another impressive diamond that also took 3 years to cut, and also is part of the British crown jewels, is the Centenary Diamond. It weighs 273.85 carats and is the world’s largest flawless diamond.
The largest rough diamond ever found on earth is the Carbonado do Sergio, discovered in Brazil in 1895. As its name states, it is a carbonado, a “black” diamond of meteoritic origin. It weighed 3,167 carats.
Biggest diamond in the universe
The biggest diamond in the entire universe is thought to be Lucy, a crystallized white dwarf star, a star consisting of diamonds. It’s weight is 10 billion trillion trillion carat. Named after the Beatles song, Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds, it is technically known as BPM 37093.

Lucy, the biggest diamond in the universe.
2 485 miles (4000 km) across, 10 billion trillion trillion carat
Diamond colors
Not all diamonds are white. Impurities lend diamonds a shade of blue, red, orange, yellow, green and even black.
Vivid blue, green and pink mined diamonds are the rarest. They are not the rarest gemstones, however. That title goes to a pure red ruby. Diamonds actually are found in abundance; thousands are mined every year. 80% of them are not suitable for jewelery – they are used in industry or in cheap rings.
Simulated and synthetic diamonds
Late in the 19th century, Scottish scientist James Ballantyne Hannay mixed lithium with bone oil and paraffin, sealed it in iron tubes and heated it to red hot. He claimed, in 1879, the resultant stones were diamonds. They were stored away and only many years later they were found to be diamonds, albeit synthetic.
In 1892, Henri Moissan theorized that diamonds could be synthesized by crystallizing carbon under pressure.
Today, simulated and synthetic diamonds is big business, outselling mined diamonds by far. Sometimes called cubic zirconia and simulated moissanite, they are categorized and evaluated with the same grading scale process as mined diamonds but sell for much less.
Simulated moissanite is a diamond simulant with similar thermal characteristics to mined diamonds and most people, even so-called experts, can’t tell them apart.
Update by comment contributor: In the jewelry trade there is a difference between ‘synthetic’ and ‘simulated’. Simulated is any item made of a completely different chemical composition created to have similar visual characteristics as a natural gemstone. Synthetic is not naturally mined, laboratory created, and having the same chemical composition as a natural product. Therefore, cubic zirconia and moissanite are simulated diamonds and not synthetic. It is considered unethical to sell a cubic zirconia as a synthetic diamond.
Weighing diamonds
A diamond carat differs from a gold carat. The gold carat indicates purity – pure gold being 24 carats. One diamond carat, for mined or synthetics diamonds, is 200 milligrams (0.007055 oz). The word carat derives from the carob bean. Gem dealers used to balance their scales with carob beans because these beans all have same weight.
The tradition of a diamond engagement ring started in 1477 when Archduke Maximillian of Austria gave a diamond ring to Mary of Burgundy. The modern tradition is the result of a clever advertising campaign designed by N.W.Ayer in the 1940s, a marketing gimmick still used today. The fact is that most diamonds have little resale or investment value.
Conflict diamonds
Diamonds also cause the death of millions of innocent people. See Conflict Diamonds.
Updated 2016.
02/07/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: diamond, synthetic.
You may also like -


Number of churches and mosques in New York City
Home » religion » Number of churches and mosques in New York City
Number of churches and mosques in New York City
New York City is the most linguistically and religiously diverse city in the world. The 8.4 million inhabitants communicate in some 800 different languages across the five boroughs – the Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queens, and Staten Island. New York is also a religious city: 83% of New Yorkers are affiliated to some organized religion. This is a rate of adherents larger than that of the state, New York State (75%), and one of the highest in the entire United States.
Christians comprise about 70% of the population; 40% of whom are Catholic and 30% Protestant. They attend approximately 2000 churches and 4000 informal places of worship such as community halls and homes, thus a total of some 6000 churches. New York City also boasts the world’s largest cathedral, the Episcopal Church of St John the Divine.
12% of New Yorker claim Jewish decent. There are more Jews in New York City than there are in the Jerusalem city limits. They have more than 1000 synagogues – 70% permanent and 30% temporary places – at their service.
There are almost a million Muslims in New York City. (Some sources claim 1.4 million; the New York City Community Affairs Bureau states the figure as 800 000.) There are more than 100 mosques in the city, plus an unknown number of small mosques that worshipers set up in their apartments or places that are not visible from the street.
Ground Zero mosque:
The area of devastation that the 9/11 terrorist attack left on the World Trade Center is referred to as Ground Zero, a military phrase for a point directly above or below the detonation of a nuclear bomb or, in short, “at the center of calamity.” The phrase does have older roots, though. But the area has a new meaning. It has become sacred ground for American Christians. Therefor, when the chairman of the Cordoba Initiative, Imam Faisal Abdul Rauf, proposed the building of a Muslim religious center near Ground Zero it created an outcry. Particularly when President Barack Obama voiced support for the mosque.
Supporters of the proposed center were quick to point out that it would not be built on Ground Zero but two blocks away, at 45-51 Park Place, general known as Park 51. They also point out that there are many Christian churches much closer to Ground Zero (as can be seen on the map), including the closest religious building, the St Paul’s Chapel just across the road.
It has, furthermore, been emphasized that the proposed construction is not a mosque (although it will include one) but a community center. But the wounds left by 9/11 have not healed. Those opposing the center fear that it might be considered a sign of victory for terrorism, a type of international symbol of heroism much like the raising of the flag on Iwa Jima was to the West. Simply too close for comfort, they say, too close to holy ground.
Site of proposed Muslim center marked in red. Note St Paul’s and St Peter’s closer.
Sources: The ARDA, Gotham Gazette, InfoPlease, Jewish Virtual Library, NYC Gov, Wikipedia New York City
08/19/2010. Category: religion. Tags: church, mosque, new york, synagogue.
You may also like -


More movies produced in India than Hollywood
Home » movies » More movies made in Bollywood than Hollywood
More movies made in Bollywood than Hollywood
Each year, more movies are produced in India, where the moving image industry is referred to as Bollywood, than in Hollywood. About 1000 movies are released annually in India, about twice the output of Hollywood. The “B” in Bollywood refers to Bombai (renamed Mumbai).
Bollywood movies often are quite long; 3 hours or more of dancing and singing around love as the main plot – although kissing is almost never shown on screen. Everyday, some 14 million Indian people queue for a movie, with more than 4 billion movie tickets sold annually, compared to 3 billion for Hollywood movies worldwide.
Indian comic actress Manorama (26 May 1937 – 10 October 2015) played the most leading roles of any performer in movie history. She began her career in 1958 and in 1985 had appeared in her 1,000th movie, eventually appearing in more than 1,500 movies, more than 5,000 stage appearances and numerous TV series.
Before Bollywood
The first movie screened publicly was “La Sortie des Ouvriers de l’Usine Lumire” which was presented by Auguste and Louis Lumiere in Paris in 1895.
The first movie to use sound was “The Jazz Singer,” released in 1927: the first words, spoken by Al Jolson, were: “Wait a minute, you ain’t heard nothing yet.”
The big movies
According to the MPAA (Motion Picture Association of America), in 1996 the average Hollywood film cost $35.3 million to make and another $17.7 million to market. Disney’s “The Lion King” cost $45 million to make and employed a total of 800 animators. Bollywood flicks are produced at average $2m.
The most expensive film ever made as at year 2000, was James Cameron’s “Titanic.” It cost $200 million, but also was the most successful, in the sense that it won 11 Academy Awards, equaling “Ben Hur” of 1959.
The top five moneymaking films of all time, as by 2010, are:
Avatar (2009) [$1.850 billion]
Titanic (1997) [$1.835 billion]
The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003) [$1.129 billion]
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man’s Chest (2006) [$1.060 billion]
The Dark Knight (2008) [$1 billion].
They are followed by Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone (2001) [$972m].
When adjusted for inflation, Gone With The Wind remains one of the highest grossing [$1.4 billion and growing], followed by Star Wars and Sound of Music, according to boxofficemojo.
Note that they all are family-type movies. In fact, movies with strong sexual or violence content usually bomb at the box office. Sex films grossed on average only $700 000. Movies with strong Christian or family content on average grossed over $37 million. According to the American Family Association, the average cost to produce a movie in 1996 was $40 million. The figures have since changed, but not the facts.
Director James Cameron is responsible for directing the two most expensive movies: Avatar (£234 million production plus $150 million promotional budget) and Titanic ($200 million production plus $20 million promotional budget).
“Frankly my dear…”
Gone With The Wind has been the best-attended film since its release in 1939. Without a doubt the most famous line in the movie is when Rhett Butler tells Scarlet O’Hara, “Frankly my dear, I don’t give a damn.” According to Cuss Control, a book by James O’Connor, director David Selznick was fined heavy for that curse word: $5,000. A lot of money in those days. The movie is based on the book by Margaret Mitchell. It was the only book she wrote.
The biggest movie promotion deal is the $2 billion agreement between George Lucas – the director of the “Star Wars” trilogy – and Pepsi for exclusive worldwide use of the film’s characters.
50% of Hollywood movies never achieve a cinema release. Those that do, make 5 times more from DVD sales than cinema takings.
The longest movie ever
The longest movie in the world according to Guinness World Records is The Cure for Insomnia, directed by John Henry Timmis IV. Released in 1987, the running time is 5220 minutes (87 hours) and has no plot. Instead, it consists of poet L. D. Groban reciting his 4,080-page poem “A Cure for Insomnia” over the course of three and a half days. The movie is inter-spliced with clips from porno and heavy metal music videos.
02/09/2010. Category: movies. Tags: bollywood, hollywood.
You may also like -


Cows do not have upper front teeth
Home » animals » Cow burps and global warming
Cow burps and global warming
Although a cow has no upper front teeth, it grazes up to 8 hours a day, taking in about 45 kg (100 lb) of feed and the equivalent of a bath tub full of water. A healthy cow gives about 200,000 glasses of milk in her lifetime.
A cow has four stomachs: the rumen, reticulum, omasum and abomasum. The rumen is the largest stomach and acts as a fermentation chamber. The abomasum is last of the four and is comparable in both structure and function to the human stomach. 
Cows and global warming
With all its grazing and many stomachs, it is no wonder that cows are one of the main contributors to the hole in the ozone layer. Apart from CFC, the biggest culprit is hydrocarbon emissions from cars and cows. Yes, cows! Cows release some 100 million tons of hydrocarbon annually – by releasing gas.
To give you an idea of how much gas a cow emits: if the gas of 10 cows could be captured, it would provide heating for a small house for a year.
But unlike what you think, cows release hydrocarbon mostly by burping.
Cow factoids
The average lifespan of a cow is 7 years but when left to roam the average lifespan of a cow is 15 years. The oldest cow ever recorded was Big Bertha. She reached 48 in 1993. She also holds the record for producing 39 calves.
The average height of a cow is around 55 inches but Dexters are 36 to 42 inches. The smallest cow in the world is Swallow, a Dexter cow from New Yorkshire, England. She stands only 33 inches (84 cm) from hind to foot. Swallow (b. 1999) is a normal healthy cow that already had nine healthy (normal size) calves.
There are more than a billion cattle in the world, about 200 million in India.
Cows that are called individually by name and cows that are played classic music to provide more milk.
Twelve cows are known as a “flink.”
02/03/2010. Category: animals. Tags: cow.
You may also like -


One in ten people lives on an island
Home » nature » Biggest and smallest islands
Biggest and smallest islands
The largest island in the world is Greenland. Australia is considered a continent because it has unique plant and animal life. Antarctica also is a continent – larger than Europe and Australia. Greenland, although quite big, shares the habitat features of Northern America.
The smallest island in the world – according to the Guinness Book of Records – is Bishop Rock. It lies at the most south-westerly part of the United Kingdom. It is one of 1040 islands around Britain and only has a lighthouse on it.
In 1861, the British government set out the parameters for classifying an island. It was decided that if it was inhabited, the size was immaterial. However, if it was uninhabited, it had to be “the summer’s pasturage of at least one sheep” – which is about two acres.
A lot of standing room – not much else.
This is Bishop Rock, the world’s smallest island.
“In the 13th Century, people convicted of a serious crime were taken out to Bishop Rock and left there with bread and water to be ravaged by the sea. Or so history suggests. Today the rock is better known as the point where record-breaking attempts to cross the Atlantic are started and finished.” – Diver Magazine
Country with most islands
Going by the above parameters, most of the 179 584 “islands” around Finland and the almost 200 000 around Canada would not match Indonesia as the country with the most islands. In fact, Indonesia consists only of islands – 13 667 of them, 6000 of which are inhabited.
Most remote islands
The remotest uninhabited island is Bouvet Island in the South Atlantic.
The remotest inhabited island in the world is Tristan da Cunha. It is in the South Atlantic, 2575 km (1600 miles) south of St Helena, which is an island a few hundred kilometres (miles) off the coast of South Africa. Tristan da Cunha has no TV but it has one radio station. The population totals 242 and they only have 7 surnames (last names) between them, so they are all related. Tristan da Cunha does have a capital, called Edinburgh of the South Seas.
The smallest independent island country is the Pacific island of Nauru. It measures 21,28 sq km (8.2 sq mi). (Only the Vatican City and Monaco are smaller countries.)
Living on an island
One out of ten people lives on an island (thus some 700 million people). Which is not so hard to imagine when you consider that more than 240 million people live in Indonesia alone – and some 64 million live in Britain, the only island connected to a continent through the chunnel (tunnel under the sea).
Iceland
Iceland, ironically, is quite green – as this graphic depicts.
Over one third of Iceland is volcanically active and loaded with lava fields. Iceland is far enough north to be entirely covered by ice, like Greenland to the west of it, but the magma below the surface heats the rock above, keeping it “green.”
Greenland
Greenland is the largest island in the world and other than its name suggests, is covered in ice – although some of it is melting.
List of largest island in the world and List of lighthouses
02/07/2010. Category: nature. Tags: biggest, islands, smallest.
You may also like -


Valentine’s celebrated Feb 15th, not 14th
Home » did you know » Valentine’s Day – festival of love
Valentine’s Day – festival of love
Valentine’s Day originates from the ancient Roman fertility festival of Lupercalia, which was celebrated on February 15 in honor of the gods Lupercus and Faunus, as well as the legendary founders of Rome, Romulus and Remus. During the festival, young men would draw the names of women from a box and each couple would be paired until next year’s celebration. Often they would fall in love and marry.
At around 270AD Rome was facing battles and civil uprising. The men were not keen to join the army. Emperor Claudius II believed that the men did not want to leave their loved ones and summarily canceled all marriages and engagements. Two priests, Valentine and Marius, disobeyed the decree and secretly performed marriage ceremonies.
Valentine was caught on 14 February and dragged to jail. Later in the day he was clubbed to death and beheaded. It is said that, before his execution, Valentine himself had fallen in love with the jailer’s daughter. He signed his final note to her, “From your Valentine.”
Valentine’s Day
In 391AD, Emperor Theodosius I declared Christianity as the official religion of the Rome. The fertility festival was celebrated until 496AD when Pope Gelasius replaced it with a similar celebration. For patron saint of the celebration, he chose the “lovers” saint, St Valentine. He also moved the date of the celebration from the 15 February to the date of St Valentine’s death, 14 February. Through the centuries, Valentines Day became to be remembered more as the festival of love instead of a religious day. In 1969 it was dropped from the Roman Catholic calendar as a designated feast day.
Cupid and Psyche
Cupid has always played a role in the celebrations of love. Those whose hearts are pierced by his arrows fall deeply in love. In Greek mythology he was known as Eros, the young son of Aphrodite, the goddess of love and beauty. To the Romans, he was Cupid, son of Venus. But where there’s love, there often is jealousy. Venus was jealous of the beauty of Psyche, a mere mortal, and ordered Cupid to punish her (for being so beautiful). Instead, Cupid fell deeply in love and took her as his wife.
As a mortal Psyche was forbidden to look at him. Eventually her sisters convinced her to look at the handsome Cupid. As punishment, Venus demanded that she perform three difficult tasks, the last of which caused Psyche’s death. Cupid found her lifeless on the ground and removed the eternal sleep from her body. The gods, moved by their love, then granted Psyche immortality.
The symbol of Cupid became part of Valentines Day only recently. Cupid is still around shooting his arrows. Psyche represents the struggles of the human soul.

It is said that Cupid’s arrows are tipped with diamonds, lending it magic without equal.
Happy Valentine’s!
Esther Howland, the woman who produced the first commercial American valentines in the 1840s, sold a then mind-boggling $5,000 in cards her first year of business. Today, over 1 billion valentine cards are sent in the US – second in number only to Christmas cards.

The rose is the symbol of love, but the flower symbol for February actually is the violet.
A rose is the symbol for June: meaning of flowers
In ancient times, the 14th of February was celebrated in honor of Juno, the queen of the Roman gods and goddesses. Juno was also the goddess of women and marriage.
02/09/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: love, rose, valentine.
You may also like -


Tomato world’s most popular fruit
Home » food » Tomato is world’s most popular fruit
Tomato is world’s most popular fruit
The tomato is the world’s most popular fruit. And yes, just like the brinjal and the pumpkin, botanically speaking it is a fruit, not a vegetable. More than 60 million tons of tomatoes are produced per year, 16 million tons more than the second most popular fruit, the banana. Apples are the third most popular (36 million tons), then oranges (34 million tons) and watermelons (22 million tons).
Tomatoes were first cultivated in 700 AD by Aztecs and Incas. Explorers returning from Mexico introduced the tomato into Europe, where it was first mentioned in 1556. The French called it “the apple of love,” the Germans “the apple of paradise.”
Tomatoes are rich in vitamins A and C and fiber, and are cholesterol free. An average size tomato (148 gram, or 5 oz) boasts only 35 calories. Furthermore, new medical research suggests that the consumption of lycopene – the stuff that makes tomatoes red – may prevent cancer. Lycopene is part of the family of pigments called carotenoids, which are natural compounds that create the colors of fruits and vegetables. For example, beta carotene is the orange pigment in carrots. As with essential amino acids, they are not produced by the human body. Lycopene us the most powerful antioxidant in the carotenoid family and, with vitamins C and E, protect us from the free radicals that degrade many parts of the body.
The scientific term for the common tomato is lycopersicon lycopersicum, which mean “wolf peach.” It is a cousin of the eggplant, red pepper, ground cherry, potato, and the highly toxic belladonna, also known as the nightshade or solanaccae. There are more than 10,000 varieties of tomatoes.
Tomatoes are used in many food products, including, of course, ketchup (tomato sauce), pasta and pizza. According to a Steel Packing Council survey of 1997, 68% of chefs use canned tomatoes for convenience, quality and flavoring. It hasn’t changed much since.
A fruit is the edible part of the plant that contains the seeds, while a vegetable is the edible stems, leaves, and roots of the plant.
Cooked tomatoes have higher concentrations of lycopene than non-cooked tomatoes.
Don’t store ripe tomatoes in the fridge. Cold temperatures lessen the flavor in tomatoes.
02/08/2010. Category: food. Tags: fruit, tomato, vegetables.
You may also like -


Hot affairs by Presidents
Home » famous » Hot Presidential affairs
Hot Presidential affairs
John F Kennedy made love in a closet while telling his mistress about another president who did the same. That President being Warren G. Harding, whose hysterical wife was attacking the secret service agent outside the White House office at the time.
Franklin D. Roosevelt had an affair with the first lady’s personal secretary.
Lyndon B. Johnson made love to a secretary on the oval office desk.
Bill Clinton’s contribution – with ardent assistance by Monica Lewinsky – is well publicized but taking the cake is John F Kennedy, who is said to have smoked marijuana with a nude playgirl while he joked about being too wasted to “push the button” in case of nuclear attack.

Clinton and Lewinsky on a 1998 Abkhazia stamp.
Img via Wikipedia Lewinsky scandal.
Not much is known about the extramarital affairs of US Vice Presidents. Which is kinda odd considering the Vice President has much more time than the President to live up to his title preamble. The Vice President has only two official duties, the one being to preside over the Senate and to cast tie-breaking votes there.
This presidential information was recorded from Hokus’ Interesting Facts Pages.
05/10/2010. Category: famous. Tags: affair, president.
You may also like -


Oscar Awards held twice in 1930
Home » movies » The first Oscars
The first Oscars
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences was established in May 1927 as a non-profit corporation to promote the art of movie making. In the first year, the Academy had 36 members, with Douglas Fairbanks Sr as president.
The first Academy Awards, now better known as the Oscars, were presented at a private dinner in the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, with less than 250 persons attending.
Today, the Academy has over 6 000 honorary members – the Oscar Awards are viewed by more than a billion people on television.
The first television broadcast of the Oscars took place in 1953 – on black and white TV, telecasted throughout the US and Canada.
Telecasting in color begun in 1966, and since 1969, the Oscars have been telecast throughout the world. By the mid-1990s it was telecast in over 100 countries.
Emil Jannings
Janet Gaynor
The first Oscars
At the first Academy Awards, held in May 1929, Best Director awards went to Lewis Milestone for Two Arabian Knights and Frank Borzage for 7th Heaven.
The first award for Actor in a Leading Role went to Emil Jannings (real name Theodor Friedrich Emil Janenz) for his roles in The Last Command and The Way of All Flesh.
The first Best Actress award was won Janet Gaynor for her roles in 7th Heaven, Street Angel and Sunrise.
The first Best Picture award went to WINGS.
All those films were screened in 1927. Those were the days of the silent movies, thus WINGS was the only silent to have won a Best Picture Oscar. It also featured Gary Cooper in a minor role.
Swiss-born Jannings grew up in Germany and had a heavy German accent which, with the advent of sound in movies, basically put an end to his Hollywood movie career.
The most popular night in the world
The Academy Award ceremony basically was a non-public affair in 1927 and 1928. But it had created such public interest that the Oscar Presentation Night was introduced in 1929.
Until 1954 the Oscars were presented mostly on a Thursday. From 1955 to 1958, they were presented on a Wednesday. From 1959 until 1998 the Oscars were, with a few exceptions, presented on a Monday night. Only since 1999 did the Awards ceremony take place on a Sunday (in March).
In total up to 2005, the famous statuettes have been handed out on 32 Monday nights, 21 Thursday nights, 8 Wednesdays, 6 Tuesdays, 2 Fridays, once on a Saturday (1948), and four times on a Sunday.
In 1930, the Academy Awards were held twice: on 3 April and on 5 November. No ceremony was held in 1933.
Since 1940 people have been kept on the edge of their seats with the familiar phrase “The envelope please.”
The Envelope Please
The record for most acting nominations without a single win is shared by Peter O’Toole and Richard Burton with seven. The most nominated actors for Best Actor and Best Supporting Roles are Jack Nicholson (11), Laurence Olivier (10), and Spencer Tracy (9). No male performer has yet won three Best Actor awards.
Only one actress has won the Best Actress award four times: Katharine Hepburn is the only actress to have won the Best Actress award four times, for Morning Glory (1932/3), Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner? (1967), The Lion in Winter (1968), and On Golden Pond (1981). In 1968 Katherine Hepburn was tied with and Barbra Streisand for the Best Actress award.
Anthony Quinn’s performance as painter Paul Gaugin in Lust for Life (1956) is the shortest ever to win a Best Supporting Actor Academy Award. He was on screen for only 8 minutes. Judi Dench made the an equally short performance, winning Supporting Actress for her portrayal of Elizabeth I in “Shakespeare in Love” (1999). More Oscar fast facts
In 1997, James Cameron’s Titanic received 11 Oscars, sharing the record of the most Oscars awards for a single film with William Wyler’s Ben Hur (1959). The closest runner-up is West Side Story with 10 Oscars in 1961.
Family matters
The Hustons are the only family to produce three generations of Oscar winners: Walter Huston was named Best Supporting Actor in 1948 for his role in The Treasure of the Sierra Madre; John Huston was awarded Best Director/Adapted Screenplay for the same movie, and Anjelica Huston received an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in Prizzi’s Honor, 1985.
Only two married couples won Oscars for acting roles: Laurence Olivier (Hamlet, 1948) and Vivian Leigh (A Streetcar Named Desire, 1951); and Joanne Woodward (The Three Faces of Eve, 1957) and Paul Newman (The Color of Money, 1986).
The only sisters to have won Oscars are Joan Fontaine (Suspicion, 1941) and Olivia de Havilland (To Each His Own, 1946, and The Heiress, 1949).
No thank you!
In 1970, George C. Scott refused the Oscar for his award-winning performance in Patton. In 1972, Marlon Brando refused the Oscars for his award-winning role in The Godfather. They weren’t the first, though. In 1935, a writer named Dudley Nichols refused to accept the Oscar for his movie The Informer because the Writers Guild was on strike against the movie studios at the time.
Double the honor
Eight actors have won an Oscar twice:
Fredric March for Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (1931/2) and The Best Years of Our Lives (1946);
Spencer Tracy for Captain Courageous (1937) and Boys Town (1938);
Gary Cooper for Sergeant York (1941) and High Noon (1952);
Marlon Brando for On The Waterfront (1954) and The Godfather (1972);
Jack Nicholson for One Flew Over The Cuckoo’s Nest (1975) and As Good As It Gets (1997);
Dustin Hoffman for Kramer vs. Kramer (1979) and Rain Man (1988);
Tom Hanks for Philadelphia (1993) and Forrest Gump (1994);
Daniel Day-Lewis for My Left Foot (1990) and There Will Be Blood (2008).
Many actresses have won the Best Actress Oscar twice:
Luise Rainer for The Great Ziegfeld (1936) and The Good Earth (1937);
Bette Davis for Dangerous (1935) and Jezebel (1938);
Vivien Leigh for Gone With The Wind (1939) and A Streetcar Named Desire (1951);
Olivia de Havilland for To Each His Own (1946) and The Heiress (1949);
Elizabeth Taylor for Butterfield 8 (1960) and Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1966);
Glenda Jackson for Women in Love (1970) and A Touch of Class (1973);
Jane Fonda for Klute (1971) and Coming Home (1978);
Sally Field for Norma Rae (1979) and Places in the Heart (1984);
Meryl Streep for Kramer vs. Kramer (1979) and Sophie’s Choice (1982);
Jodie Foster for The Accused (1988) and The Silence of the Lambs (1991).
Also see the list of Oscar winners
The Academy Awards and Oscars are trademarks of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
02/09/2010. Category: movies. Tags: oscars.
You may also like -


Can opener invented 48 years late
Home » inventions » Can openers invented 48 years after cans
Can openers invented 48 years after cans
Cans were opened with a hammer and chisel before the advent of can openers.
The tin canister, or can, was invented in 1810 by a Londoner, Peter Durand. The year before, French confectioner, Nicolas Appert, had introduced the method of canning food (as it became known) by sealing the food tightly inside a glass bottle or jar and then heating it. He could not explain why the food stayed fresh but his bright idea won him the 12,000-francs prize that Napoleon offered in 1795 for preserving food.
Durand supplied the Royal Navy with canned heat-preserved food while Appert would help Napoleon’s army march on its stomach.
Tin canning was not widely adopted until 1846, when a method was invented to increase can production from 6 in an hour to 60. Still, there were no can openers yet and the products labels would read: “cut around on the top near to outer edge with a chisel and hammer.”
Can opener
The can opener was invented in 1858 by American Ezra Warnet. There also is a claim that Englishman Robert Yeates invented the can opener in 1855. But the can opener did not become popular until, ten years later, it was given away for free with canned beef. (Canned pet food was introduced by James Spratt in 1865.)
The well-known wheel-style opener was invented in 1925. Beer in a can was launched in 1935. The easy-open can lid was invented by Ermal Cleon Fraze in 1959.
Aluminum cans
Since 1972, some 64 million tons of aluminum cans (about 3 trillion cans) have been produced. Placed end-to-end, they could stretch to the moon about a thousand times. Still, cans represent less than 1% of solid waste material – about one quarter of all cans are recycled. Worldwide, some 9 million cans are recycled every hour. Which is good news, considering that it takes a can about 200 years to degrade if you bury it. It takes paper about a month to bio-degrade, a woolen sock about a year, and plastic possibly hundreds of years.
Recycling cans saves 95% of the energy required to make aluminum from ore, or the equivalent of 18 million barrels of oil, or 10.8 billion kilowatt hours. Used aluminum cans that are recycled return to store shelves within 60 days.
Timeline history of the can
02/06/2010. Category: inventions. Tags: cans, recycling.
You may also like -


Traffic lights used before advent of motorcar
Home » vehicles » Traffic lights in use before there were motorcars
Traffic lights in use before there were motorcars
Traffic lights were used before the advent of the motorcar. In 1868, British railroad signal engineer J P Knight invented the first traffic light, a lantern with red and green signals. It was installed at the intersection of George and Bridge Streets in front of the the British House of Commons to control the flow of horse buggies and pedestrians.
Motorcars were introduced to the US in the late 1890s and the need for traffic control soon became obvious. A number of people came up with ideas for traffic control. In 1910, Earnest Sirrine of Chicago, Illinois filed for a patent (no 976,939) for what is considered the first automatic street traffic system, using non illuminated words STOP and PROCEED.
In 1912, Lester Wire of Salt Lake City, Utah invented an electric traffic light that used red and green lights. However, he did not apply for a patent. The next year, James Hoge received patent no 1,251,666 for a manually controlled traffic light system using electric lights. It was installed in Cleveland, Ohio in 1914, displaying the words STOP and MOVE.
The first traffic light system to use red and green lights were patented by William Ghiglieri of San Francisco, California in 1917 (patented no 1,224,632). His design could be operated manually or in automatic.
The amber light was added in 1920 by William Potts, a Detroit policeman. He actually invented several traffic light systems, including the overhang four-way system, but did not apply for patents. The first person to apply for a patent to produce inexpensive traffic lights was Garrett Morgan, who received his patent in 1923.
Parking Meter
The credit for taking all your parking credits goes to Carlton Cole Magee who invented the first parking meter in 1932, receiving a patent (no 2,118,318) for it in 1935. His Magee-Hale Park-O-Meter Company installed the first meter in Oklahoma City in 1935 and still produces most of the parking meters in the United States.
Don’t Walk
The first Don’t Walk signs were installed in New York City on 5 February 1952. Red remained the preferred color for warning signs because red elevates the blood pressure, heightening nervous tension, therefore the most likely color to attract attention. Yellow is used in signs aimed at vehicle traffic because it is the most visible color in the spectrum and can be seen from the farthest distance.
02/07/2010. Category: vehicles. Tags: traffic, trafficlights.
You may also like -


Amazing swimming records
Home » sports » Who will be the first to swim around the world?
Who will be the first to swim around the world?
Far-fetched it may seem but when Benoit Lecomte swam across the Atlantic in 1998 he introduced a new global sports challenge: the first to swim around the world.
The long history of swimming is depicted in mosaics from early Middle Eastern civilizations and at Pompeii.
Although swimming was not included in the ancient Olympic Games, the Greeks practiced the sport, holding it in high regard. Plato considered a man who didn’t know how to swim to be uneducated.
Julius Caesar and Charlemagne were known as great swimmers and Louis XI frequently swam in the Seine.
There have been other swimmers whose talents brought them international fame: Johnny Weissmuller, Gertrude Ederle, Mark Spitz. And then there was Captain Matthew Webb. On 24 August 1875 he slipped into the water at Dover, England, and 21 hours and 45 minutes later touched land at Cape Gris Nez, France, becoming the first man to conquer the English Channel.
Swimming the English Channel became the greatest swimming challenge of the day. Since Webb’s triumph, there have been more than 6 200 known attempts to swim the English Channel. More than 470 people were successful over 600 times, including a 12-year-old boy in 1979, a 12-year-old girl in 1983, a 65-year-old man in 1983, and a 45-year-old woman in 1975. Mike Read holds the men’s record, and Alison Streeter surpassed him with the women’s record.
Matthew Webb, in search of an ever greater challenge, died attempting to swim the violent whirlpool rapids below Niagara Falls in 1882.
The first woman to swim the English Channel was 19-year old American Gertrude Ederle, who was partially deaf from a childhood case of measles. From 1921 to 1925, Ederle set 29 US and world records for swimming races ranging from the 50 metre (50 yard) to the half-mile race. In the 1924 Summer Olympic Games, she won a gold medal as a member of the championship US 400-meter freestyle relay team, at only 17 years of age. On 6 August 1926 she crossed the English Channel in 14 hours and 31 minutes – 2 hours faster than the men’s record – setting a woman’s world record that stood for 35 years. It brought her even further international acclaim, and a ticker parade in New York.
Gertrude Ederle 1926 – first woman to swim across the English Channel.
Swimming the open ocean, any ocean, is no easy feat. The water is icy cold, the tides are fierce, and the traffic of tankers and ferries is daunting. Such huge challenges, however, seem to be the thriving factor for the most brave. One of whom is Alison Streeter (b. 1964). Known as “Queen of the Channel,” she has swum the chilly Channel more times than anyone else – 43 crossings. Streeter first swam the Channel at 18, is the first woman to swim the ‘double’, and the only woman ever to have completed the ‘three-way’ to France, back and to France again.
Alison Streeter has swam the grueling English Channel more times than anyone.
Although the 34km (21 mile) English Channel is considered the most grueling swim in the world, other waterways were tackled in the quest to become the one who swims further and faster: Siberia’s Lake Baikal, Cuba to the Florida Keys, the Canada Channel, Catalina Channels, Manhattan Island, and even the Bering Strait.
Another great sportsman – at 13 years old Kutraleeswaraan swam six waterways in one calendar year, earning him a place in the Guinness Book of World Records.
The greatest swimmer ever?
Possibly the greatest triumph of endurance is Benoit Lecomte swimming across the Atlantic ocean.
Lecomte, born 1967, immigrated from France to Austin, Texas, at age 23. When his father died of colon cancer in 1992, it spurred him to do something extraordinary to raise awareness of and money for cancer research. With the help of Edward Coyle, director of UT Austin’s Human Performance Lab, and dieticians, Lecomte trained to build his endurance, swimming and cycling 3 to 5 hours a day, six days a week for two years.
On 16 July 1998, he set out from Cape Cod with 8 wet suits, a snorkel and some flippers into turning weather. Navigated through the 40th and 50th latitude by two French sailors on a 12m (40 foot) sailboat and protected by an electronic force field, Lecomte swam 6 to 8 hours a day at two-hour intervals.
Benoit Lecomte swimming the Atlantic ocean
He mainly used the crawl stroke, switching occasionally to a mono fin and using an undulating dolphin kick to carry him over the 5 600 km (3 736 nautical miles) of relentless waves. After 72 days later, on 28 September 1998, he swam ashore, exhausted but heroic, at Quiberon, France.
In a remarkable feat of endurance, 31-year Benoit Lecomte became the first man to swim across the Atlantic ocean, 1998.
Update 2018: Lecomte attempts to swim across the Pacific Ocean, from Tokio, Japan to San Francisco, California, a distance of 5 500 miles (8 900 km).
Part of the reason for the Pacific crossing is to raise awareness about the impact of excessive human garbage polluting the world’s oceans. In his words:
Before anything else I am a father and as a father the future of my children concerns me because, as we all know, our way of life is not sustainable. I don’t want to be passive and pass on to my children the liability we are tagging on to our environment. We can all make a difference once we realize how we can be better stewards of the environment and our own ecological footprint, make appropriate daily changes and inspire others to do the same.
Follow Lecomte on The Longest Swim.
Modern swimming tech
Lecomte probably could not have done it without the modern techniques and clothing that have helped athletes reach astonishing levels of performance. The latest swimming costumes reduce drag resistance by more than 8%, resulting in a performance that is even better than when swimming naked.
Consider that when Captain Matthew Webb became the first person to swim the English Channel in 1875, his waterlogged woolen swimwear weighed about 3 kg (10 lb). By contrast, the new Speedo one-piece weighs just a few ounces, even when soaked.
But it is not just the clothes that maketh the man, or woman. To swim across an ocean, you have to become your own hero before becoming everybody else’s. That is the type of material that Lecomte donned – and what his challengers will need.
Golden Age of Sports
The 1920s was the Golden Age of Sports and Johnny Weissmuller was its golden swimmer. He set world records in 67 different events before trading swimming for even greater fame as Hollywood’s most durable Tarzan.
Other firsts:
The first in a hot air balloon around the world
The first airplane to fly around the world
02/04/2010. Category: sports. Tags: lecomte, swimming, tarzan.
You may also like -


Most babies born in this month
Home » did you know » August is baby month
August is baby month
We bid a hearty welcome to the millions of new earthlings who arrive in August, the month with the highest birth rate. You are the proud results of a joyous Christmas season… even if your parents did not put up Christmas trees.
19.5% of new August babies are born in India and 11.6% in China, respectively 6 and 4 times more than in the United States: approximately 2.2 million and 1.3 million vs 0.4 million. Which means two babies are born every second in India and China vs a new baby every 8 seconds in the US. World-wide, 5 beautiful new babies are born every second.
The global fertility rate is 2.61 while the United States has a fertility rate of 2.05 children born per woman. One in every 31 new cuddly earthlings born globally is born in the US, thus 3% of all new births.
Nearly 40% of the American newlings – 2 out of 5 American babies – are born to unwed mothers. One in ten are born to a teenage mother, according to the National Center for Health. The birth rate among US teenagers is twice as high as the average for all developed countries: 42 births per thousand teenage girls (ages 15-19) vs 21 per thousand.
About 51% of all babies born in the US are boys; 49% are girls. Of the estimated 135 million new babies born world wide every year, approximately 70 million are boys and 65 million are girls. Yes, about 5 million more baby boys! (On average, there are some 36 million more boys and girls – of all ages – in the world.) Boys continue to outnumber girls until about age 40, when the number evens out. By age 65, there are only 88 boys for every 100 women. By age 85, women outnumber men almost 2-to-1, proof that boys over 80 are doubly blessed :)
In the US, the average weight of a baby at birth is 7 pounds, 5 ounces. More babies are born on Tuesdays and Wednesdays than any other day, with Sundays delivering the fewest babies. And compared with other months, the stork flies least in February.
How many babies are born on Christmas day?
Also see: World Population
Sources:
BabyCenter, CIA World Fact Book, National Center for Health, Population Reference Bureau
08/09/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: babies, population.
You may also like -


World population growth and food for all
Home » did you know » World population facts
World population facts
The US Census Bureau reported that the 6 billionth person was born at 1.24am on Sunday July 18, 1999. The United Nations however, had set that landmark at October 12, 1999. In 2011, the world population exceeded 7 billion.
Every second 5 people are born and 2 people die, a net gain of 3 people. At this rate, the world population will double every 40 years and would be 12 billion in 40 years, 24 billion in 80 years, and more than 48 billion in 120 years.
However the United Nations estimate that world population will stabilize at 12 billion in 120 years, citing that effective family planning will result in a universally low birth rate. Education plays a key role: almost half of the 6 billion people are under age 25.
At the beginning of the second millennium (1000 AD) the world population was 400 million. In 1750 there were about 800 million people in the world. In 1850 there were a billion more, and by 1950, another billion. Then it took just 50 years to double to 6 billion.
In another 50 years the world population is expected to be 9 billion, which means that a decrease in growth of the world population is expected.
Every day on average 140,000 people die but every day 200 million couples make love and 400,000 babies are born.
The recent global population explosion is not only the consequence of increased birth rates but also the result of an unprecedented decrease in death rate. Significant advances in public health and medicine, phenomenal agricultural yields and the expanding global economy contributed to the population explosion as the lifespan average continues to increase.
Really big cities
Only one in ten people lived in cities in 1900. By 1994 the figure had grown to one of every two people, creating megalopolies of millions to tens of millions inhabitants. More than 400 cities have a population of more than a million people. Managing such large cities, and better management of the planet’s resources, could become the most difficult challenge of this century.
Enough food?
25,000 people die every day because of starvation. Yet, in spite of the global population increase and desertification, famines have actually become less frequent over the past 200 years.
The famines in Africa seen on TV are due to corruption, political strife and civil wars (see conflicts between countries) that disorganize economies, paralyze transportation and prevent emergency food drops. In fact, out of the 40 poorest and hungriest nations on earth, 36 actually export food to richer countries.
World population Day is celebrated on July 11th.
02/04/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: hunger, population.
You may also like -


Peter the Great tax people with beards
Home » famous » Peter the Great taxed people for growing beards
Peter the Great taxed people for growing beards
Modern Russia started with the rule of Peter the Great. He realized that Russia should be westernized to ensure its independence. Already fascinating by mechanical inventions, he studied government and business models of the West.
But Peter also believed in starting from the bottom and working his way up. He learned ship building from the Europeans he invited to Russia, and built a ship himself, which he captained as Peter Alekseevich. In 1697, he accompanied an embassy to European courts as a carpenter named Peter Mikhailov. He also served as seaman, soldier, barber and, to the discomfort of his courtiers, as dentist.
Peter sent Russians to be educated in the West, and imported skilled labor, military and administrative experts from abroad. He encouraged smoking, but taxed tobacco. Because European men usually were clean shaven, he taxed Russians wearing beards.
He modernized the calendar, simplified numerals, and encouraged private industry and mining. Remarkably, Peter managed to modernize Russia without borrowing money for his state. Instead, he taxed his citizens heavily.
To ensure continual contact with the West, Peter captured the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea from the Swedes and built a new capital, St. Petersburg, on its shores.
Peter the Great (1672 – 1725) was proclaimed Tzar at age 10, but due to a power struggle had to rule under the patronage of his sister Sofia. He seized control from her when he was just 17. His real name was Peter Romanov.
In 1715, at the funeral of a favorite court dwarf, lines of ecclesiastics were followed by 24 pairs of male and female dwarfs arranged by height, followed by Peter and his ministers.
Peter was a big strong man, 2,04 meters (6′ 8” inches) tall, and unlike previous monarchs, not afraid of physical labor. In November 1724, he dived into the cold northern ocean to assist in a ship rescue. It led to his illness and death.
02/07/2010. Category: famous. Tags: kings, peter, tzar.
You may also like -


Gibraltar named after a former slave
Home » did you know » Gibraltar named after a slave
Gibraltar named after a slave
Mohammed’s followers burst out of Arabia after his death in 632 and by the end of the 7th century their descendants had conquered the whole of North Africa. The first Moslem incursion into Iberia was in 710, when a small reconnaissance force landed at the southernmost point of the peninsula.
The following year a former slave, a Berber by the name of Tariq ibn-Ziyad, led an army of about 7 000 ashore at a point close to the huge rock which dominates the entrance to the Mediterranean. They called the rock Jabal Tariq, or Tariq’s Mount, and eventually Christian tongues changed it to Gibraltar.
Or is it?
Prior to the invasion of the Iberian Peninsular by Tariq, small incursions and recces were conducted by Tarif ibn Malik Nakli, who reported that Spain was ripe for the picking. According to Tito Vallejo in his article in the Gibraltar Chronicle, when Tariq landed in Gibraltar in 711, the Rock was named Jabal Al Fath and the town Medinat Al Fath, which mean the Mountain of Victory and the City of Victory respectively.
The Arab word Tariq means track or path. The Rock of Gibraltar became “Jabal Tariq” or The Mountain of the Path, for the Path of Islam into the Iberian Peninsula. The theory is that the Muslims, at the height of their religious fervour, would not dare to name the mountain after the name of a person but rather in honor of their religion.
End of the earth
Before Columbus “discovered” America, Gibraltar was considered to be the end of the earth. The Spanish town of Tarifa is named after the Arab word Taraf, which means the end of something. Going beyond Tarifa meant that you would fall over the edge of the earth.
It took 2 years for Tariq’s small force to subdue the peninsula. But after crossing the Pyrenees, they were defeated by the Franks and withdrew. Tariq ibn-Ziyad died about 720. Gibraltar was recaptured by the Castilians in 1309 but was regained by the Moors in 1333 and held until 1462, when it finally passed from Moorish possession. In 1502, it was annexed to the Spanish crown. In 1830, Gibraltar became a British crown colony.
After the sacking of Gibraltar by the Algerian corsair Barbarossa II (Khayr ad-Din, 1483?- 1546) in 1540, the Rock was furnished with strong defences by command of Holy Roman Emperor Charles V. On July 24, 1704, during the War of the Spanish Succession, Gibraltar was captured by combined English and Dutch forces. In 1830, Gibraltar was named a crown colony.
Gibraltar official site
Panorama – Gibraltar online daily news
The Gibraltar Magazine
Tito Vallejo contributed to this story.
02/06/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: gibraltar, tariq.
You may also like -


King of chefs and melba toast
Home » famous » The king of chefs and Dame Melba
The king of chefs and Dame Melba
One of the greatest chefs is Auguste Escoffier (1846-1935). He started working in his uncle’s restaurant at age 14 and went on to work in the world most famous hotels. Recognized as the “king of chefs and the chef of kings.”
During a visit to Paris, William II of Germany is said to have remarked to him: “I am the emperor of Germany, but you are the emperor of chefs.”
Euguste Escoffier
Escoffier’s most famous recipe was Peach Melba, created for Australian opera star Nellie Melba (1861-1931) when she was staying at the Savoy in 1893. Dame Melba also liked her toast made in the way that today bears her name: Melba toast.
Dame Nellie Melba
The tall chef’s hat is called a “toque.” During the 16th and 17th centuries, toques came in all shapes: berets, stocking caps, and even pointed hats with tassels. During the 18th century the tall hat came into use to show order of importance among the kitchen staff.
Books: Auguste Escoffier and Nellie Melba
More food named after famous people
02/06/2010. Category: famous. Tags: escoffier, melba, toast.
You may also like -


Mercedes cars named after Austrian girl
Home » vehicles » Mercedes cars are named after Austrian girl
Mercedes cars are named after Austrian girl
In 1897, Austrian businessman Emil Jellinek, traveled from his home in Nice, France to purchase a car from the Daimler factory in Cannstatt, Germany. On his return to the French Riviera, his sporting Daimler Phoenix caused such a sensation that he decided to enter it into a local touring competition, under the name of “Mercedes” after his favorite 9 year old daughter.
Realizing the business potential for the new car, he not only placed an order for 36 more, but also secured the franchise for selling them in several countries. Gottlieb Daimler also agreed to having them sold under the name of “Mercedes.”
Mercedes Jellinek, after whom Mercedes cars are named.
The Mercedes trade name was registered after Daimler’s death in 1900 and the 3-pointed star became the trade mark. Daimler had once drawn the emblem on a postcard to his wife, the star symbolizing the growth of the business into transport on land, sea and air.
For Karl Benz, a name for his automobile was simple: he enclosed his name in a cogwheel to exemplify the solidness of his engineering works at Mannheim. The cogwheel later became a laurel wreath.
After the First World War the Daimler and Benz companies worked closer together, generally advertising on the same posters. They amalgamated in 1926, combining the laurel wreath and 3-pointed star as their trade mark.
Interestingly, although Gottlieb Daimler and Karl Benz were two of the major pioneers in the automotive industry, they probably never met, even though they lived only 100km (60 miles) from each other in Germany. Daimler passed away in 1900. Daimler-Benz amalgamated in 1926.
Gottlieb Daimler (1834 – 1900) founded the Daimler Motoren Gesellschaft
(DMG) in 1890, and also introduced the world’s first motorcycle, pickup truck and taxi.
Karl Benz (1844 – 1929) founded Benz & Co in 1883 with Max Rose and Friedrich Wilhelm Esslinger.
World’s first gasoline-driven motorcycle, the 1885 Daimler Reitwagen
In 1886 Daimler introduces the world’s first pickup truck
Daimler Victoria, the world’s first motorized taxi, 1897. It was delivered – with taxi metre – on June 16th of that year to Stuttgart transportation entrepreneur Friedrich Greiner, who starts the world’s first motorized taxi company.
Mercedes official home page
02/07/2010. Category: vehicles. Tags: benz, cars, daimler, mercedes.
You may also like -


British royal family change surname
Home » famous » British royal family changed surname in 1917
British royal family changed surname in 1917
The British royal family changed their surname (last name) from Saxe-Coburg-Gotha to Windsor in 1917.
George V was king of England from 1910 to 1936. Son of Edward VII, King of England, and Princess Alexandra of Denmark, he married Queen Mary of Teck (called May) in 1893. Known as the Sailor Prince, he had an active naval career and rose to the rank of vice admiral in 1903.
World War One broke out in 1914 and was in full fury in 1917. In protest, King George V renounced all the German titles belonging to him and his family and adopted the name of his castle, Windsor.
Royal ranking
A Duke is the highest rank you can achieve without being a king or a prince. Where does the Viscount, Earl or Baron rank in royalty? See the peerage list
Tower of London
Ravens are kept in the Tower of London because, according to myth, the British throne will come to a fall if the ravens leave the tower. The wings of the ravens are clipped to prevent them from flying away.
Book: You thought you knew them? In Kings & Queens of England & Great Britain, Eric R. Delderfield laid out the royal genealogy in a flowing, concise way, offering tidbits of fact for each monarch.
Also see Mad Kings
02/07/2010. Category: famous. Tags: kings, queen.
You may also like -


Bank of America started as Bank of Italy
Home » money » Bank of America started as Bank of Italy
Bank of America started as Bank of Italy
Amedeo Giannini, son of Italian immigrants to the US, started the Bank of Italy in a converted saloon in San Francisco at 9 am on Monday, October 17, 1904. On the first day, 28 deposits totalled $8,780.
When an earthquake struck in 1907, he ran his bank from a plank in the street – the word “bank” is from the Italian “banca”, meaning a bench or counter. Word quickly spread about his service and by 1916 he had several branches. By 1929, the bank was strong enough to withstand the Great Depression stock crash.
Giannini changed the name to Bank of America in 1928 and remained chairman until 1963.
The Bank of America would become one of the largest banking institutions in the world but by 2008, due to poor management, had to receive government bailout.
The Bank of Italy in Italy was created in 1893 through the merger of 3 of the 6 banks at the time: Banca Nazionale nel Regno d’Italia and 2 Tuscan banks.
The Bank of England was founded by William Patterson after King William III of England found himself badly in need of funds to fight a war with France in 1694. Patterson provided the funds after the king agreed to order all the goldsmiths of London to stop issuing receipts as depositories for precious metals, forcing merchants to store their gold with the new bank. The Bank of England was finally authorized in 1946 and to this day remains as an institution mainly to the benefit of the rich.
The Reichsbank of Germany was founded by Meyer Amschel Rothschild (1743-1812), who appointed his son Karl over the Bank of Naples, and his son Salomon over the Bank of Vienna. Later, his son Edmund presided over the Bank of Germany, and his son Nathan over the Bank of England.
Factoids
Alexander Hamilton (1755-1804) became the first US Secretary of Treasury under Pres. Washington.
By the time of the American Civil War (1861 – 1865) there were 1600 banks in the US, issuing about 7,000 different kinds of bank notes.
In 1861, the US Congress authorized “promissory notes,” calling them “greenbacks” to contrast in color with notes issued by private banks. The US Treasury held the impressive sum of $346,681,016.
Also see Banks are the most unsafe institutions in the world
The word “dollar” has its origins in the Roman Empire
02/07/2010. Category: money. Tags: banks.
You may also like -


Many kings were mad!
Home » famous » Many kings were just plain mad
Many kings were just plain mad
Caligula of Rome had his father, mother and two brothers killed to become emperor. Nero had his mother and first wife killed. These two emperors were hated so much by the people that all references to them were deleted from official Roman documentation.
The first French king, Clovis II, went mad after stealing the arm of a martyr. His great-grandson, Childeric III was known as “the idiot”. The mother of Louis IX complained that he was “not sound of mind”. And his younger son, Robert of Clermont went mad after being hit on the head with a sledge hammer.
Charles VI, called Charles the mad, ruled France from 1380 to 1415. At stages, he believed that he was made of glass and inserted iron rods into his clothing to prevent him from breaking.
The Habsburg Kings of Spain descended from Queen Juana The Mad of Castile, who was mentally unstable. Her ancestors increased her inheritance by inbreeding. These incestuous marriages resulted in the mentally and physically handicapped King Carlos II of Spain, who had an enormous, misshapen head and a chin exaggerated to almost caricature-like proportions rendering him unable to chew and barely able to speak.
Several British kings went mad as a result of a blood disorder that causes gout and mental derangement. The most famous was Mad George III, who ruled England in the 18th Century. George was afflicted with porphyria, a maddening disease which disrupted his reign as early as 1765. Several attacks strained his grip on reality and debilitated him in the last years of his reign.
George III portrait by Johann Zoffany, 1771
Keeping it in the family, in 1776 his sister, Princess Caroline Mathilda married, at age 15, the deranged Christian VII of Denmark. George III died blind, deaf and mad at Windsor Castle on January, 29 1820.
The United States briefly enjoyed the services of a monarch, Emperor Norton I, who proclaimed himself Emperor of the United States and Protector of Mexico in 1859. He had all his “state proclamations” published in San Francisco’s newspapers and wrote letters that were seriously considered by Abraham Lincoln and Queen Victoria.
Sun worshiping Aztecs celebrated the inauguration of Ahuitzol in 1486 by offering the hearts of 80,000 prisoners, presumably to show that their new king could sacrifice more than any of his predecessors.
HT: Joan Bos’ The Mad Monarchs Series
02/06/2010. Category: famous. Tags: kings.
You may also like -


Napoleon possibly died of poisoning
Home » famous » Napoleon: tragic figure or flawed genius?
Napoleon: tragic figure or flawed genius?
Napoleon’s christening name was Italian: Napoleone Buonaparte. He was born on the island of Corsica one year after it became French property. As a boy, Napoleon hated the French. Still, he attended the Paris Military Academy, and became a French lieutenant at age 16.
Napoleon was in Paris during the French revolution, and when France became a Republic on 10 August 1792, he was promoted to the rank of Captain.
After defeating the Italian armies in 1796 and the Austrians in 1797, he was made General.
Napoleon the emperor
In November 1799, he overthrew the French Directory to become First Consul of the government. He called himself Napoleon I.
In 1804, a mere 12 years after the monarchy was disposed of in the French Revolution, Napoleon secured a vote to change France from a consulate to an empire. Napoleon became Emperor of France.
Napoleon Bonaparte
(15 Aug 1769 – 5 May 1821)
By 1812, Napoleon had wiped out the last traces of the Holy Roman Empire and conquered most of Europe. But after a disastrous battle against Russia, his enemies struck back.
On March 18, 1814, the allies marched into Paris. Napoleon abdicated on April 6, 1814.
Battle of Waterloo
Napoleon was sent into exile on Elba, a tiny island off the coast of Italy. In March 1815, he escaped and marched toward Paris with thousands of his old guard. For a brief time, known as the Hundred Days, Napoleon returned to his former glory. He was finally defeated by a combined English and Prussian force on June 18, 1815 at the Battle of Waterloo in Belgium.
Napoleon on St. Helena
On July 15, 1815, Napoleon was exiled to the remote tiny volcanic island of St. Helena, south of the Equator. The nearest land is Ascension Island, 1,120 km (700 miles) to the north.
Accompanied by some of his generals who chose to go into exile with him, Napoleon lived in Longwood House on St. Helena. He passed time by dictating his memoirs and playing billiards.
The green wallpaper
The wallpaper in his room was dyed with Scheele’s Green, a coloring pigment that had been used in fabrics and wallpapers from around 1770. The wallpaper was named after the Swedish chemist who invented it the dye contained copper arsenide.
In 1893, an Italian biochemist called Gosio discovered that if wallpaper containing Scheele’s Green became damp, the mold converted the copper arsenide to a poisonous vapor form of arsenic. Breathing the arsenic on its own might not have been enough to kill Napoleon, but he already was ill with a stomach ulcer. On the May 5, 1821, the arsenic possibly tipped the scale against “the little corporal.”
Napoleon was buried on St Helena, but his body was later reburied in Paris on the banks of the Seine. His wish to be cremated was not respected.
Josephine
Napoleon married Josephine de Beauharnais, a widow with two children, on March 9, 1796. The marriage was childless and he divorced her in 1809.
The next year he married Marie Louise, the 18-year old daughter of the Hapsburg Emperor of Austria. Within a year she had given Napoleon a son whom he named the King of Rome.
Napoleon’s height
Although Napoleon is now known as “the little corporal” he actually was of average height. His height was mentioned by doctors – including his own doctor, Francesco Antommarchi, who carried out the autopsy on Napoleon – as 5 foot 2 inches by the French measurement; which is correct because, at the time, the French foot was slightly longer than the English foot measurement, corresponding to Napoleon being 5 ft 6.5 inches tall, the average height of men in those days.
Was he a tragic figure or a flawed genius?
Napoleon quotes
“Four hostile newspapers are more to be feared than a thousand bayonets.”
“A man will fight harder for his interests than for his rights.”
“From sublime to ridiculousness there is only one step.”
“China is a sleeping giant. When she awakes, she will shake the world.”
02/07/2010. Category: famous. Tags: napoleon.
You may also like -


One billion bicycles
Home » vehicles » Bicycle facts
Bicycle facts
There are about a billion bicycles in the world, twice as many as motorcars. Almost 400 million bicycles are in China. Every year some 50 million bicycles – and 20 million cars – are produced.
Although Leonardo da Vinci drew some rough sketches of a contraption that looked like a bicycle, the Frenchman Comte Medi De Sivrac built the first bicycle-type vehicle in 1690. It was referred to as a hobbyhorse, or célérifère. However, it did not have pedals.
Replica of a célérifère, the world’s first bicycle
Peddles were added in 1839 by a Scottish blacksmith, Kirkpatrick Macmillan, who is credited with inventing the real bicycle.
Thomas McCall’s velocipede, 1869 – later predated to 1839 and attributed to MacMillan
On a penny-farthing bicycle, one pedal gave the wheel one turn. A lot of pedaling was needed to get around! With the advent of gears, bicycles could move as fast as cars.
Air-filled tyres were used on bicycles before they were used on motorcars.
The bicycle as we know it today – with two wheels of the same size – looks almost exactly the same as one from 1900.
The first five-seat bicycle, the quindem, was built in 1940.
World’s fastest bicycle
In 1985, John Howard, Olympic cyclist and Ironman triathlon winner from the US, set the world speed record for a bicycle when he reached 152.2 mph (245,08 km/h) cycling in the slipstream of a specially designed car.
Fred Rompelberg in the slipstream of a dragster
The record would stand until October 3, 1995 when Dutch cyclist Fred Rompelberg pedaled in the slipstream of a dragster at 167.044 mph (268,831 km/h).
What is even more amazing is that Fred, who holds a number of bicycle speed records, was 50 years old when he set the Absolute World Speed Record for Cycling. He still is the world’s eldest professional cyclist.
But records are made to be broken! On September 16, 2018 legendary American cyclist Denise Mueller-Korenek cycled in the slipstream of a dragster across Bonneville Salt Flats to 183.931 mph (296.009 km/h).
World Bicycle Day
June 3 is World Bicycle Day.
Save a tree: Get off your bum; get on your bike!
02/05/2010. Category: vehicles. Tags: bicycles.
You may also like -


The Third Millennium
Home » did you know » The Third Millennium
The Third Millennium
The third millennium started at about 21h00 on 31 December 2000. Basically, the year 2000 is celebrated one year earlier because the year 0 was not calculated. It is the THIRD millennium, of course, because the Gregorian calendar has already observed two thousand years after Christ. See the history of the calendar.
Zero Hundred Hours
All time and space on earth is measured by two reference lines: Longitude based on the Greenwich Meridian (0 Longitude) and the Equator (0 Latitude). To simplify timekeeping, modern nations divide earth into 24 north-south zones of standard time.
The position of the Greenwich Meridian was agreed to at an international conference in Washington, DC, USA in 1884 where it was also decided that a Universal Day begins at 00h00 at that longitude. This imaginary line runs from North Pole to South Pole as established through the primary transit instrument (telescope) at the Royal Observatory Greenwich at that time. In 1928, the International Astronomical Union recommended that the time known as Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) be referred to as Universal Time (UT). (Prior to 1925, in astronomical and nautical almanacs, a day of Greenwich Mean Time began at noon.)

Welcome to the new millennium
At 00h00 1 January 2000 UT the sun rose along a line that runs from about 650km (404 miles) east of Kerguelen Island in the Indian Ocean to about 640km (398 miles) east of Amsterdam Island, through the Nicobar Islands, up along the Burma-Thailand border, through China, along the China-Outer Mongolia border, along the China-Russia border, through Siberia and out into the Arctic Ocean just north of the Poluostrov peninsula. At this time of the year, earth is tilted so that the North Pole is continually in darkness and Antarctica is almost continually in daylight.
It was also determined at the Washington Prime Meridian conference in 1884 that the International Date Line be drawn at 180 degrees – 12 hours ahead of GMT. So, when the new millennium was welcomed at midnight in Greenwich, England, many other nations were already dancing away well into the third millennium.
The first millennium consisted of 365,250 days. The second millennium of 365,237 days. The third millennium will consist of 365,242 days.
AD is short for Anno Domini, or “Year of our Lord,” as proclaimed by the Roman Catholic Church. Some non-Christians prefer the alternative designation “CE” for “Common Era.”
The word “millennium” was first used in the 17th Century.
The International Date Line detours eastward through the Bering Strait to avoid dividing Siberia and then deviates around the Aleutian Islands in Alaska and some of New Zealand to follow the time zone boundaries of those places. Dateline map recorded from the New Zealand Millennium Site
Here comes the sun
The place that was first reached by the sun in local time 1 January 2000 is Young Island in New Zealand’s Antarctica Balleny Islands, at 00h08 (12:08am). Balleny Islands are proclaimed by Greenwich Observatory as the first land to have sunrise each day. Next in line was the Dibble Glacier, close to the French Dumont D’Urville base. Sunrise will occurred there at 00h22. But, as with Young Island, it is uninhabited, so we’ll head a little further north to find the first inhabited land to have witnessed the first sunrise of the new millennium.
Millennium Island
The Republic of Kiribati (pronounced Kiribas) is made up of 33 South Pacific coral atolls which straddle the International Date Line. It is subdivided into three main groups known as the Gilbert Islands, the Phoenix and the Line Islands. From north to south, Kiribati covers a distance of 800km (497 miles); the distance east to west is 3218km (1999 miles). In 1993 Kiribati decided to consolidate all three island groups under a single time zone and selected the Gilbert Islands, west of the International Date Line, as the standard. Kiribati’s capital, Tarawa, is located in the Gilberts.
Kiribati was the first country to meet the new millennium. They even renamed its easternmost point, Caroline Island, to Millennium Island (even though it is as inaccessible as Antarctica). However, Kiribati was not the first to greet the new millennium sunrise, which rose over Millennium Island at 05h43 local time.
New Zealand
Pitt Island was the first inhabited land to be touched by the first millennium sunlight. Pitt Island is part of New Zealand’s Chatham Islands, 850km (528 miles) east from the mainland. Sunlight reached Mount Hakepa at Kahuitara Point (situated 44 16′ S 176 9′ W) on Pitt Island at 04h49 (4:49am).
The sun reached New Zealand’s mainland at Mt Hikurangi on the East Coast at 05h43. Gisborne, New Zealand was the first major city to welcome the new millennium sun.
The last place where the sun set on 31 December 1999 was Falealupo, Samoa at 19h02 local time.
THIRD MILLENNIUM SUNRISE
Australia: Cape Pillar, Tasmania at 04h32.
Africa: Fort-Dauphin, Madagascar at 05h05.
Europe: Ukraine just west of Donetsk, Russia at 08h11.
South America: Cabo San Juan, Argentina at 04h43.
North America: Cape Breton, Nova Scotia at 07h41.
USA: Peacock Pt. on Wake Island at 07h27. However, Wake Island is mostly uninhabited. The first inhabited land in the US to witness the new millennium sunrise was Inarajan, Guam at 06h44, after it reached the peak of Lamlam Mountain, Guam 3 minutes earlier. The first place on the US mainland was Cadillac Mountain, Maine at 07h04. The first metropolitan area in the US to see the third millennium sunrise was Miami Beach, Florida at 07h07.
Mt Hakepa on Pitt Island was the first inhabited place on earth to welcome the third millennium.
Mt Hakepa is located at Longitude W 176.10, Latitude S 44.16. The sun rose there at 16h05 GMT, or 04h49 local time, on 1 January 2000.
The picture of Mt Hapeka is represented with the kind permission of Ken and Robert Lanauze of Pitt Island, New Zealand.
The different calendar dates
02/07/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: calendar, millennium, time.
You may also like -


Westminster Abbey in London
Home » religion » Westminster Abbey and Westminster Cathedral
Westminster Abbey and Westminster Cathedral
One of the greatest achievements of Edward the Confessor, who ruled England from 1042 to 1066, was the construction of Westminster Abbey.
Born the son of King Ethelred the Unready and Emmaat at Islip in Oxfordshire, Edward was driven from England by the Danes and spent his exile in Normandy.
The story goes that Edward vowed that if he should return safely to his kingdom, he would make a pilgrimage to St Peter’s, Rome.
When he returned and was crowned at Winchester in 1042, he found it impossible to leave his subjects. The Pope released him from his vow on condition that he should found or restore a monastery to St Peter. This led to the building of Westminster Abby in the Norman style to replace the Saxon church at Westminster.
Westminster Abbey
Edward determined that the Minster should not be built in London, and so a place was found to the west of the city, hence it is called “Westminster.”
The Westminster Abbey was consecrated on 28 December 1065, but Edward could not attend due to illness. He died on 5 January l066 and was buried in a shrine before the High Altar in his new church.
In 1534, King Henry VIII decreed the Act of Submission of the clergy and an Act of Succession followed, together with an Act of Supremacy which recognised the king as “the only supreme head of the Church of England called Anglicana Ecclesia.”
In 1540, he dissolved the Benedictine monastery and despoiled Edward’s shrine. Edward’s body was buried in some obscure spot in the Abbey.
In 1557, Mary I restored the shrine with the bones of St Edward the Confessor behind the High Altar. However, the Confessor’s coffin still lies in a cavity in the top part of the marble structure.
Since William the Conqueror was crowned in Westminster Abbey in 1066, and, with the exceptions of Kings Edward V (1483) and Edward VIII (1936), all coronations have taken place there. The funeral of Princess Diana was held at the Abbey in September 1997, although she was buried at Althrop, her family home in Northamptonshire.
The Westminster Abbey’s formal title is The Collegiate Church of St Peter, Westminster. The popular title Westminster Abbey” continues to be used, even though there have been no monks here since the l6th Century.
For the record, there is no inscription in the Abbey dating from 1100 AD that reads “When I was young I thought I could change the world…” even though it is quoted as such in “Chicken Soup for the Soul”.
Westminster Cathedral
Westminster Abbey is often confused with Westminster Cathedral (pictured). Westminster Abbey is an Anglican Church. Westminster Cathedral is a Roman Catholic Church, situated about 400 m (437 yd) west of the Abbey.
The Cathedral site was reclaimed by the Benedictine monks who were the builders of Westminster Abbey and used as a market. In the 17th Century the land was sold by the Abbey for the construction of a prison.
The Catholic Church acquired the site in 1884. Building on Westminster Cathedral started in 1903 and the Church was consecrated in 1910.
The Campanile Bell Tower is 83 metres (273 feet) in height and from a four-sided viewing gallery it is possible to see much of London.
Edward the Confessor
Edward the Confessor was not a particularly successful king, but his character and piety endeared him to his people. He is represented as tall, dignified and with a long white beard.
Edward was regarded as a saint long before he was officially canonised as Saint and Confessor by Pope Alexander III in 1161. The Confessor title applies to those who suffered for their faith and demonstrated their sanctity in the face of worldly temptations, but who were not martyrs.
02/09/2010. Category: religion. Tags: abbey, cathedral, westminter.
You may also like -


The first stone lighthouse
Home » did you know » First stone lighthouse lit by only 24 candles
First stone lighthouse lit by only 24 candles
The first documented lighthouse was the Lighthouse of Alexandria, built in 200 BC on the island of Pharos by the Egyptian Emperor Ptolemy. Considered as one of the Seven Wonders of the World, it is thought to have been 492 ft (150 metres) high – about three times taller than modern lighthouses. 
Graphic reconstruction of the Lighthouse of Alexandria
Eddystone lighthouse
Romans emperors built many lighthouses – called Pharos – to assist their navigators. After their conquest of Britain, beginning in 43 AD, they built two lighthouses at Dover. The surviving one is the oldest lighthouse in England and still stands in the Dover Castle grounds.
The world’s tallest brick lighthouse, the Lanterna at Genoa, was built in 1543. It still stands proud at 246 ft (75m) tall.
The world’s first stone lighthouse was the Smeaton Eddystone (pictured), built just south of Plymouth, England in 1756 by John Smeaton, the “Father of Civil Engineering.” It was lit with only 24 candles. The Eddystone lasted 47 years until it was floored by fire. It was then dismantled and built on a neighboring rock.
Despite navigation available by GPS (Global Positioning System), lighthouses are still in use. Modern lighthouses, however, are automated and they light up to the equivalent of 20 million candles, lit by high pressure xenon lamps reflected through huge Fresnel lenses.
The Yokohama Marine Tower, a 348 ft (106m) high steel tower at Yamashita Park, Yokohama is one of the highest lighthouses in the world. It is however, a fair amount shorter than the world’s highest lighthouse, the Jeddah Light in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia – it stands 436 feet (133 m) high.
Also see: List of world’s tallest towers
The Lighthouse Encyclopedia
Updated January 2013
02/07/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: eddystone, lighthouse, wonders.
You may also like -


Nothing happened between 3 and 13 September
Home » did you know » History of the calendar
History of the calendar
In September 1752 the Julian calendar was replaced with the Gregorian calendar in Great Britain and its American colonies. The Julian calendar was 11 days behind the Gregorian calendar, so 14 September got to follow 2 September on the day of the change. The result was that between 3 and 13 September, absolutely nothing happened!
The calendar switch also influenced the way George Washington’s birthday is celebrated. He was born on 11 February 1731, but the anniversary of his birth is on 22 February because of the 11 days eliminated from the calendar switch. At the same time, New Year’s Day was changed from 25 March to 1 January, thus according to the new calendar, Washington was born in 1732.
George Washington, born February 11, 1731 and February 22, 1732
Portrait of George Washington by Gilbert Stuart, 1797.
The first Roman Calendar (introduced in 535BC) had 10 months, with 304 days in a year that began in March. January and February were added only later. In 46BC, Julius Caesar created “The Year of Confusion” by adding 80 days to the year making it 445 days long to bring the calendar back in step with the seasons. The solar year – with the value of 365 days and 6 hours – was made the basis of the calendar. To take care of the 6 hours, every 4th year was made a 366-day year. It was then that Caesar decreed that the year begins with the 1st of January.
In 325AD Constantine the Great, the first Christian Roman emperor, introduced Sunday as a holy day in a new 7-day week. He also introduced movable (Easter) and immovable feasts (Christmas).
In 1545 the Council of Trent authorized Pope Paul III to reform the calendar once more. Advised by astronomer Father Christopher Clavius and physician Aloysius Lilius, Pope Gregory XIII ordered that Thursday, 4 October 1582 was to be the last day of the Julian calendar. The next day was Friday, 15 October. For long-term accuracy, every 4th year was made a leap year unless it is a century year like 1700 or 1800. Century years can be leap years only when they are divisible by 400 (e.g. 1600). This rule eliminates three leap years in four centuries, making the calendar sufficiently correct for all ordinary purposes.
Protestant rulers ignored the new calendar that the Pope ordered. It was not until 1698 that Germany and the Netherlands changed to the Gregorian calendar. As mentioned, Britain made the change only in 1752. Russia adopted the new calendar in 1918, China in 1949.
In spite of the leap year, the Gregorian year is about 26 seconds longer than the earth’s orbital period. Thus the beginning of the third millennium should have been celebrated at 9:01pm on 31 December 1999. But considering that the Gregorian calendar starts with Year 1, and not Year 0, adding 2000 years means that the third millennium started at 21h00:34s on 31 December 2000. However, because Dionysis Exeguus – the 6th Century monk whose task it was to pivot the calendar around the birth of Jesus Christ – miscalculated the founding of Rome by about 4 years (and left out the year 0), the true third millennium actually started on 31 December 1995.
The calendars
The first day of the year in the Gregorian calendar is 1 January.
The first month in the Hindu calendar is Chait’r (March/April in the Gregorian calendar).
The Chinese New Year occurs at the second new moon after the beginning of the Northern Hemisphere winter, thus between 20 January and 20 February.
The Jewish calendar begun 3760 years before the beginning of the Christian era. The Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah, is celebrated during September or October of the Gregorian calendar.
Time standards
The 24-hour division of the day was introduced in the 4th Century BC by the Sumero-Babylonians.
In 1905 Einstein showed in his theory of relativity that time is effected by motion so that the faster one goes the slower time does.
In 1972, Atomic time became the world’s official time standard, as Co-ordinated Universal Time (UTC)
In the 6th Century, the Roman monk and astronomer named Dionysis Exeguus (Dionysis the Little) reformed the calendar to pivot around the birth of Christ. He dated the Nativity 753 years from the founding of Rome, calculated to the date King Herod died. But Dionysis miscalculated, because Herod died only 749 years after the founding of Rome, thus 4BC. Dionysis also left out the Year 0. He used the Julian calendar.
Dictionary of Dates
Ancient calendars
02/04/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: calendar, gregorian, time.
You may also like -


Water everywhere but not much to drink
Home » nature » Water, water, everywhere… but where?
Water, water, everywhere… but where?
One can live without food for almost a month but survive no longer than a week without water. Yet, although almost half of the world’s population live in water-scarce countries, there actually is enough of this precious liquid for everyone.
The UN recommends that a person needs minimum of 50 litres of water a day for drinking, washing, cooking and sanitation, which over a billion people do not have access to. According to UNESCO, the world’s population are appropriating 54% of all the accessible freshwater contained in rivers, lakes and underground aquifers. If per capita consumption of water resources continues to rise at its current rate, humankind could be using over 90% of all available freshwater within 25 years, leaving just 10% for all other living beings.
Freshwater lakes and swamps account for a mere 0.29% of the Earth’s freshwater. 20% of all freshwater is in one lake, Lake Baikal in Asia. Another 20% is stored in the Great Lakes, Huron, Michigan, and Superior. Rivers hold only about 0.006% of total freshwater reserves. Mankind essentially uses only a drop in the bucket of the total available water supply.
So where is all the water?
Antarctica, which is thought to hold about 75% of the world’s fresh water (and 90% of the world’s ice). In fact, almost 10 percent of the world’s land mass is currently covered with glaciers, mostly in Antarctica and Greenland. But it will take more than a Zippo to melt it for daily use.
Towing icebergs for fresh water is an old but often debated concept. Given that 9/10ths of an iceberg is underwater, it acts the same as a type of big barge. In the 1930s, Barnes Wallis suggested using tugs to tow large fabric bags – waterpods – to transport water at a fraction of the cost of building water tankers. (After all, today oil is transported by towing it in huge bags.) In the 1970s, Saudi Arabia considered towing icebergs and Thames Water of London again suggested it in 2006. But, until it happens, where’s the rest of the water?
Underground water
For the United States, one crucial source is the huge underground reservoir which stretches from Texas to South Dakota, the 800-mile Ogallala aquifer. It provides an estimated third of all US irrigation water. In fact, 95% of the United States’ fresh water is underground.
In Libya, the Great Man Made River Project, as it’s called, is pumping some 6 million cubic metres of water a day from aquifers in the desert, providing irrigation for 150 000 hectares of land. Many countries have turned to aquifers to quench peoples’ thirst.
Aquifers form over thousands of years, but many had been cut off from their original natural sources and are being steadily depleted. In some areas, like Mexico City, aquifer levels dropped by 90 – 150cm (3 – 5 ft) a year, essentially sinking whole areas.
The big, big blue lagoon
No, not the sea. A reservoir of water three times the volume of all the oceans lies deep beneath the Earth’s surface, according to New Scientist. It won’t be easy getting it out – it’s 700 km (435 miles) underground. But is might just be the reservoir of the future.
Water factoids
World Water Day is celebrated on March, 22nd every year.
One kilogram (2.5 pounds) of grain-fed beef needs at least 15 cubic metres of water, while a kilogram of cereals needs only up to three cubic metres.
Between 6 and 9 million people die annually of thirst.
70% of the water used worldwide is used for agriculture.
Australia is the continent with the least rainfall, apart from Antarctica.
Water withdrawals for industry:
World: 22% of total water use
High-income countries: 59% of total water use
Low-income countries: 8% of total water use
Water science for schools
02/07/2010. Category: nature. Tags: water.
You may also like -


Thanksgiving held twice in 1815
Home » did you know » Thanksgiving held twice in 1815
Thanksgiving held twice in 1815
Thanksgiving was a centuries-old tradition held by most cultures around the world. After the autumn harvest, communities held 3-day-long feasts, sharing meat, bread and beer. Today, Thanksgiving is known best as an US public holiday but is again becoming popular in the rest of the world.
The first American Thanksgiving was held between 21 September and 11 November 1621 in Massachusetts by 50 Plymouth Pilgrims and their 90 Wampanoag neighbors. After that, Thanksgiving was held fairly randomly.
Thanksgiving days were proclaimed annually by the US Congress from 1777 to 1783 which, except for 1782, were all celebrated in December. George Washington declared Thanksgiving in 1789 and 1795, and John Adams in 1798 and 1799. James Madison declared Thanksgiving twice in 1815. None of these were celebrated in the autumn.
The next national Thanksgiving was declared only in April 1862, by Abraham Lincoln. In 1863, he declared Thanksgiving for 6 August, and for the last Thursday in November. He went on to declare a similar Thanksgiving observance in 1864, establishing a precedent that was followed by Andrew Johnson in 1865 and by every subsequent president.
After a few deviations of the day of celebration – Thanksgiving was held on 7 December in 1865, and 18 November in 1869 – the last Thursday in November was proclaimed as the national Thanksgiving day, but still not a officially holiday. Thanksgiving remained a custom unsanctified by law until President Roosevelt signed a bill on 26 November 1941 that established the fourth Thursday in November as the national Thanksgiving public holiday.
Canada’s Thanksgiving is held on the second Monday in October.
Thanksgiving travel
Long-distance travel increases by over 50% as people head to be with their families for Thanksgiving, making it one of the busiest traveling periods, surpassed only by the Christmas/New Year period. About 90% of those trips are by car, mostly on the Wednesday before Thanksgiving day. The average Thanksgiving trip is 214 miles.
Black Friday
Thanksgiving is not a traditional shopping day. It simply is a day for sharing with the family and to express gratitude. The shopping craze takes off on the day after Thanksgiving, known as Black Friday. It is one of the busiest shopping days of the year in the United States, kicking off the Christmas shopping holiday.
Traditional Thanksgiving dish
Turkey is the traditional dish for the Thanksgiving feast. In the US, about 280 million turkeys are sold for the Thanksgiving celebrations. There is no official reason or declaration for the use of turkey. They just happened to be the most plentiful meat available at the time of the first Thanksgiving in 1621, starting the tradition.
Modern tradition is to put up the Christmas tree on the day or weekend after Thanksgiving.
02/08/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: thanksgiving, travel, turkey.
You may also like -


2 700 languages spoken in the world
Home » literature » 2 700 languages spoken in the world
2 700 languages spoken in the world
The “invention” of language is not known except for references in the Bible. It is not known what language Adam and Eve spoke. The first mention of different languages is the reference to the tower of Babel when different tongues were bestowed.
The invention of writing, however, is credited to the Sumerians of Mesopotamia in the 4th millennium BC. Their descendants, the Sumero-Babylonians, developed the time system that we use today: an hour divided into 60 minutes, which are divided into 60 seconds.
Today, there are more than 2,700 different languages spoken in the world, with more than 7,000 dialects, 7,117 of which are catalogued by the Ethnologue language dictionary.
In Indonesia alone, 365 different languages are spoken.
More than 1,000 different languages are spoken in Africa. In fact, just the Niger-Congo languages number 1,526 altogether.
The most difficult language to learn, probably, is Basque, which is spoken in north-western Spain and south-western France. It is not related to any other language in the world.
English is the most spoken language in the world, mostly as a second language. As home language (first language, native language or mother tongue), Mandarin is the most spoken in the world.
Youngest language in the world
The youngest language in the world is Afrikaans, a West Germanic language spoken by approximately 7 million people in South Africa (more than 6 million speakers), Namibia (more than 200,00 speakers) and more than 100,000 expats in Australia, New Zealand, UK and the United States.
Afrikaans is the 69th most spoken language in the world.
Dutch and German Protestants fled persecution from the Roman Catholic Church in the 17th and 18th century to settle in the Dutch colony of Cape of Good Hope on the southern point of Africa. By the early-20th century Afrikaans had developed from Dutch, German and other influences into a fully fledged language with its own dictionaries. It is the third most spoken language in South Africa (Zulu being the most spoken, the Zulu people being the largest ethnic group there).
Tamil is the oldest spoken language in the world, first appearing over 5,000 years ago.
Tamil is the first language of more than 75 million Tamil people in India and Sri Lanka. It is also used as a second language by 6 million others.
New languages
New languages develop as different cultures meet and mix. For instance, about 700 different languages are spoken in London.
In some suburbs of big cities like London and New York, English is now a second language. The same is happening – or has taken place – in cities such as Los Angeles, Miami and Singapore.
Already the Internet and mobile phone texting are influencing the development of languages as people communicate freely across cultural and regional borders. New languages are bound to develop out of these massive meetups.
The smallest country in the world is the Vatican. It also is the only country where Latin is the official language.
Somalia is the only country in the world where all the citizens speak one language, Somali.
Top 10 languages on the Internet
02/06/2010. Category: literature. Tags: dialects, langauge.
You may also like -


World’s largest flower
Home » nature » World’s largest flower
World’s largest flower
The largest flower in the world, the rafflesia arnoldi, weighs 7 kg (15 pounds) and grows only on the Sumatra and Borneo islands of Indonesia. Its petals grow to 1.6 ft (1 metre) long and 1 inch (2,5 cm) thick.
There are 16 species of rafflesia, found in Sumatra, Malaysia, Philippines and Borneo. The species is named after the naturalist Sir Stamford Raffles, who founded the British colony of Singapore in 1819. Raffles discovered the parasitic plant with his friend Dr. Joseph Arnold during their travels in May 1818. The rafflesia arnoldi is named after the two.
Rafflesia Arnolidi
However fascinating and beautiful the rafflesia arnoldi may be, it is also called “corpse flower” and really reeks, the latter to attract flies for pollination.
Of about 200,000 kinds of flowers in the world, the smallest is the duckweed, which can only be seen with a microscope.
Oldest living thing
The oldest living thing on earth is a flowering shrub called the creosote bush, found in the Mojave Desert. It is 15 metres (50 ft) in diameter. It is estimated that it started from a seed nearly 12,000 years ago. During its lifetime the last major period of glaciation in North America came to an end, the wheel and writing were invented, and the great Egyptian and Mayan pyramids were built. The shrub is still living.
02/06/2010. Category: nature. Tags: flowers, rafflesia.
You may also like -


Anders Celsius’s boiling water
Home » did you know » Boiling point of water
Boiling point of water
In 1741, Anders Celsius defined his temperature scale on the melting and boiling temperature of water. Although Celsius did not discover the thermometer – both Philo and Hero of Alexandria (who also mentioned steam power in 50 BC) described such a principle – his design was much more precise than any previous such invention. Celsius scaled his measurements as 0 for boiling point and 100 for freezing point but the order was later reversed.
You might have been told that water boils at 100 degrees Celsius (212 Fahrenheit) but the boiling point of water actually depends on the oxygen content and atmospheric pressure. The higher the altitude, the lower the temperature at which water boils. People who live at high altitudes, like Tibetans, drink their tea while it is bubbling with boiling. Many Tibetans who moved to India suffered serious burns when they drank their boiling tea at sea-level.
The boiling point for water at sea level and under standard conditions is 100 degrees Celsius (212F).
British Standard 6008 and International Standard ISO 3103 advise that tea is best made with water that is freshly boiled. Prolonged boiling of water, or water that is boiled twice, drives off the dissolved oxygen in the water, making the tea taste flat.
Tea is said to have been discovered in 2737 BC by a Chinese emperor when some tea leaves accidentally blew into a pot of boiling water. The teabag was introduced in 1908 by Thomas Sullivan of New York.
02/02/2010. Category: did you know. Tags: celsius, temperature, water.
You may also like -


Products designed simultaneously
Home » inventions » Famous products invented by different people at the same time
Famous products invented by different people at the same time
Great minds thinks alike. When Johann Vaaler patented his paperclip in 1901, there already were similar designs by William Middlebrook and Cornelius Brosnan. Vaaler is credited with being the first to design a paperclip because of drawings he made as early as 1899.
In 1669, the principles of differential calculus were determined by Sir Isaac Newton in England and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in Germany at about the same time. (The name is derived from the Latin word for “pebble,” referring to the use of pebbles for counting.) 
One hour before Alexander Graham Bell registered his patent for the telephone in 1876, Elisha Gray patented his design. After years of litigation, the patent went to Bell.
Gray invented the first electronic musical instrument. He had accidentally discovered that he could control sound from a self-vibrating electromagnetic circuit and in doing so invented a basic single note oscillator. The “Musical Telegraph” used steel reeds whose oscillations were created and transmitted over a telephone line by electromagnets. At the same time, around 1874, Bell had also designed an experimental “Electric Harp” for speech transmission over a telephone line using similar technology to Gray’s.
At 10h35 on Friday 17 December 1903, Orville Wright took the Flyer that he and his brother Wilbur built into the air for what has come to be known as the first powered flight. Earlier, unbeknownst to them, Gustave Whitehead and Richard Pearse were also experimenting with flying machines. Who actually took first to the sky remains a controversy.
In 1926 in Scotland, John Logie Baird demonstrated a machine that transmits movie pictures using radio technology, calling it a “televisor.” It was based on a 1884 idea by German Paul Nipkow. At the same time, Philo Fansworth was toiling away in San Francisco on his concept for television. The two men met a few months later, and Baird had to agree that Farnsworth’s electronic design was the better. They weren’t the only ones working on a TV model, though. Vladmir Zworykin, a Russian immigrant to New York, was working on athode-ray tubes, with the backing of David Sarnoff, the tech-savvy marketer who started NBC. In 1928, Farnsworth’s television sets made it to the market first, at $75 apiece.
Without the one knowing about the other, Jack Kilby from Texas and Robert Noyce from California invented the integrated circuit in 1958. However, their idea is not new – Briton GW Dummer had suggested such a design in 1952.
Great designs did not only bring great fun, they brought great growth. In the 1400s, global income rose only 0,1% per year. Today it often tops 5%. For the past 200 years, inventors often ranked as some of the richest in the world: Colt, Deere, Nobel, Goodyear, Edison, Bell, Eastman, Daimler, Gates, to name a few. In the 1990’s companies spent more on communication than on industrial, farming, mining and construction machinery.
It took some popular products 100 years to get to the marketplace
Predictions that missed the mark
Susanna Viljanen of Finland contributed to this story
02/08/2010. Category: inventions. Tags: products, telephone, television.
You may also like -


Cause for Alzheimer’s Disease unknown
Home » famous » Alois Alzheimer and Alzheimer’s Disease
Alois Alzheimer and Alzheimer’s Disease
Alois Alzheimer grew up in a small house in the German wine country near the River Main. Educated at medical schools in Tbingen, Berlin, and Wrzburg, Alzheimer received his M.D. from the University of Wrzburg at the age of 23. He began his career as a professor of Psychology in Breslau.
Alzheimer published several treatises on cerebro arteriosclerosis in 1904 and on Huntington’s chorea early in 1911. Together with Franz Nissl they established the pathologic anatomy of mental illness. In 1912 the University of Breslau appointed Alzheimer professor of psychiatry and director of the Psychiatric and Neurologic Institute.

Alois Alzheimer
But it was an event in 1906 that made Alzheimer a household name. It was in that year that a 51 year-old woman named “Auguste D.” was admitted to the Hospital for the Mentally ill and Epileptics in Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany. Alzheimer, then 42, was called in to help the woman, who had difficulty answering even the simplest of questions. When he asked her her name, she said it was “Auguste.” Asked what her husband’s name was, she also replied “Auguste.” She could not remember her address or place of birth. When reciting the alphabet she stopped at G and she could no longer remember the order of the months. She continued to lose her memory up to her death five years later.
Alzheimer was fascinated by the case. He paid careful attention at the autopsy to the atrophy in her brain, wrote about his findings, and shared it with his colleagues. Emil Kraeplin, a distinguished psychiatrist, proposed naming the dementia condition after Alzheimer, the study that is now known as Alzheimer’s Disease, a progressive, degenerative disease of the brain, and the most common form of dementia.
Dementia affects 1 in 20 people over the age of 65, and nearly half of those over 85 have Alzheimer’s disease. A small percentage of people in their 30s and 40s develop the disease. Scientists still are not certain what causes Alzheimer’s. Researchers are exploring the role of genetics in the development of Alzheimer’s, but most agree the disease is likely caused by a variety of factors.
Alois Alzheimer died of rheumatic heart disease and cardiac failure at age 51.
September is World Alzheimer’s Month and World Alzheimer’s Day is held on September 21.
Alzheimer’s Association
This story is from Laura Lee’s “The Name’s Familiar: Mr. Leotard, Barbie and Chef Boyardee“
02/07/2010. Category: famous. Tags: alzheimer.
You may also like -


Aspirin discovered during experimentation
Home » inventions » Aspirin discovered during experiment with waste product
Aspirin discovered during experiment with waste product
Friedrich Bayer was born in 1825, the only son in a family of six children. His father was a weaver and dyer, and Bayer followed in his footsteps. In 1848, he opened his own dye business, which became very successful.
In the past, all dyes had come from organic materials, but in 1856 coal tar dyes were discovered. Bayer and Friedrich Weskott, a master dyer, saw great potential in coal tar, and in 1863 they formed Friedrich Bayer et Compagnie to manufacture the dyes.
Hoffmann’s Aspirin
Bayer died on May 6, 1880, while the company was still in the fabric dye business. The company went on to employ chemists to come up with innovative dyes and products and in 1897 that’s exactly what one of the chemists, Felix Hoffmann, did.
While experimenting with a waste product of one of the dye components to find relieve for his father’s rheumatism, Hoffmann chemically synthesised a stable form of salicylic acid powder. The compound became the active ingredient in a pharmaceutical wonder product: Aspirin.
The title was named “a” from acetyl, and “spir” from the spirea plant, meadowsweet (Filipendula ulmaria, also known as Spiraea ulmaria), the source of salicin.
Aspirin already in use for the 3500 years
However, Hoffmann did not discover “aspirin.” He “rediscovered” it after studying experiments on acetylsalicylic acid made 40 years earlier by French chemist Charles Gergardt. In 1837, Gergardt produced good results, but the procedure was difficult and time consuming. He decided that it was not practical, and set it aside. But Gerhardt knew quite well about potential cures of acetylsalicylic acid because it had been proclaimed for more than 3 500 years!
In early-1800, German Egyptologist Georg Ebers bought papyruses from an Egyptian street vendor. The Ebers Papyrus, as they are known, contained a collection of 877 medicinal recipes from 2500 BC and recommended an infusion of dried myrtle leaves for rheumatic and back pain.
Ebers papyrus
Even in 400 BC Hippocrates of Kos, the father of all doctors, recommended a tea extract from the bark of the willow tree for fever, pain, and labour. The active substance in this juice, which does in fact ease pain, is, as we know today, salicylic acid.
In China and Asia, and among North American Indians and the Hottentots of South Africa the beneficial effect of plants containing salicylic acid was known from early times.
The breakthrough
Although it relieved pain, the willow bark extract, salicylic acid, caused severe stomach and mouth irritation. Hoffmann’s breakthrough came on August 10, 1897 when he produced the first 100% chemically pure form of acetylsalicylic acid, thus without the free salicylic acid.
On March 6, 1899, Bayer registered Aspirin as a trademark. Not without a challenge, though. In fact, initially it received trade certificates only in the US. In England and Germany, other companies challenged the patents, citing their own research. Hoffmann’s written evidence prevailed, and when he retired in 1928, Aspirin was known throughout the world. He, however, lived unrecognized until his death on February 8, 1946 in Switzerland.
Diacetylmorphine
Aspirin was Hoffmann’s most remarkable, but not his only success. A few days after he succeeded in synthesizing acetylsalicylic acid, he manufactured another compound for which the Bayer company had high hopes, but today finds dubious popularity: diacetylmorphine, or heroin, a substance obtained a few decades earlier by English chemist C.R.A. Wright. Heroin was prescribed cautiously during WWI but by 1931 it disappeared from medicine lists in almost all countries.
Felix Hoffmann, born in Ludwigsburg in 1868. He completed his pharmaceutical studies at Munich University, gaining a distinction. On April 1, 1894, he joined Friedrich Bayer & Co. After the discovery of pure acetylsalicylic acid he became head of the pharmaceutical department.
Friedrich Bayer‘s company initially produced only anilines. He died in 1880, unaware that Bayer was to become a pharmaceutical giant. By 1891, Bayer had introduced an assorted product range. Today, it has more than 10,000 products.
Aspirin had became known as a preventative medicine in the fight against heart attacks, strokes and, lately, cancer. It also went into space in the first-aid kit of the Apollo 11’s lunar module.
Scientists found that the part of willow bark that is bitter and good for pain is the chemical salicin. This chemical can be converted by the body after it is eaten to another chemical, salicylic acid. Aspirin is a member of this family of chemicals called salicylates.
To find out how aspirin works, see How Stuff Works and visit the Aspirin Foundation
02/07/2010. Category: inventions. Tags: aspirin, bayer, hoffmann, medicine.
You may also like -


5 billion crayons produced every year
Home » inventions » Brief history of crayons and Crayola
Brief history of crayons and Crayola
More than 100 billion crayons have been produced so far. The first crayons consisted of a mixture of charcoal and oil.
In the early 1900s, cousins Edwin Binney and Harold Smith developed a nontoxic wax crayon. Binney’s wife, Alice, attached the French word for chalk, craie, with “ola,” from oily, to form the Crayola brand name. Their first box of Crayola crayons were sold for a nickel in 1903.
The first Crayola crayons came in a box of eight colors: black, blue, brown, green, orange, purple, red and yellow. By 1957, 40 new colors were introduced.
Today there are more than 120 crayon colours, including Atomic Tangerine, Blizzard Blue, Mango Tango, Outrageous Orange, Laser Lemon, Screamin’ Green and Shocking Pink.
Over 5 billion crayons are produced each year.
Classic 60’s Crayola Crayon television commercial
02/05/2010. Category: inventions. Tags: crayons.
You may also like -


Emmy award first called “Immy”
Home » famous » Emmy Award first called “Immy”
Emmy Award first called “Immy”
Members of The Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (ATAS) rejected 47 proposal before selecting the current Emmy statuette in 1948.
ATAS founder Syd Cassyd first suggested to call the symbol “Ike”, a nickname for a television iconoscope tube. But being similar to that of war hero Dwight D Ike Eisenhower, the Academy rejected the name. The third Academy president and pioneer television engineer, Harry Lubcke, suggested “Immy”, after the orthicon camera tube.
The name “Immy” was used for a number of years until Academy members changed it to Emmy, as more appropriate for a female statuette. The Emmy statuette was created by television engineer Louis McManus, who modeled it after his wife.
The Emmy is a winged woman holding an atom. The wings represent the muse of art, and the atom the electron of science. The statuettes are made of gold, silver, nickel and copper. They are handcast, buffed and hand polished. Each one takes 5 hours to make.
The first Emmy for Outstanding Personality, presented in 1949, went to a puppet. Shirley Dinsdale, a 15 year-old ventriloquist on the Eddie Cantor radio show in the 40s, received the award for her puppet Judy Splinters.
The Emmys is held annually in Los Angeles. The 2001 Emmys broadcast was canceled twice due to war against international terrorism but eventually was presented on 4 November. It was the first time in its 53-year history that the Emmys was canceled.
02/08/2010. Category: famous. Tags: awards, emmy, tv.
You may also like -


Dinosaurs did not eat grass
Home » trivia » Dinosaur diets
Dinosaur diets
Plant-eating dinosaurs did not eat grass, because there wasn’t any – so it is thought. During the Mesozoic Era, when the dinosaurs lived, conifers – cone-bearing trees and shrubs – dominated the landscape. They included redwoods, yews, pines, palms, cypress and the monkey puzzle tree. Flowering plants and grass evolved only later.
By the way, a plant does not look like its parents, but will always resemble its grandparents.
02/05/2010. Category: trivia. Tags: dinosaur.
You may also like -


World’s highest bridge
Home » construction » Highest and longest bridges in the world
Highest and longest bridges in the world
The highest bridge in the world can be found in the Ladakh valley between the Dras and Suru rivers in the Himalayan mountains. The valley lies at an altitude of about 5 602 m (18,379 ft) above sea level on the India side of Kashmir.
It is a Bailey bridge, only 30 metres (98 ft) long, built by the Indian Army in August 1982.
The highest bridge is on the highest road in the world, which runs along the Himalayan ridge in the Ladakh valley in Kashmir.
Highest road, in Kashmir
A Bailey bridge is a temporary bridge of lattice steel designed for quick assembly from prefabricated parts. The design is famous for its military application. In fact, its designer, Donald Bailey, worked for the British War Office during the Second World War when he proposed the design, the first of which was used in the North Africa campaign in 1942.
US troops launching a Bailey bridge. Image via Wikipedia.
World’s highest bridge over water
If you were thinking of the bridge that stands highest over water, then the Royal Gorge Bridge over the Arkansas River in Colorado, US is your answer. Built in 1929 for $350,000, it spans 321 m (1,053 ft) above the water.
The highest bridge measured by its piers is the Millau Viaduct (Viaduc de Millau) over the River Tarn in the Massif Central mountains in France. It is more than 300m (984ft) high and 2,5 km (1,5 miles) long.
Millau Viaduct (Viaduc de Millau) over the River Tarn in France.
World’s longest bridge
The longest bridge in the United States over a body of water is the Lake Pontchartrain Causeway in New Orleans, USA with a total length of 38,6 km (24 miles). It was completed in 1956.
The Bang Na Expressway in Bangkok, Thailand is even longer, at 54 km (33.5 miles), but mostly is an elevated highway. However, the world’s longest bridge is the 164,8 km (102 miles) Danyang–Kunshan Grand Bridge near Qingdao City in East China’s Shandong province, opened in 2011 at a cost of $8 billion.
The most expensive bridge is the Seto-Ohashi-Kojima bridge in Japan. At 13,22 km (8,21 miles) long, it was built in 1988 at a cost of $8.3 billion. It is the world’s longest two-tiered bridge system.
The world’s largest natural bridge is the Rainbow Bridge, tucked away among the rugged, isolated canyons at the base of Navajo Mountain, Utah, USA. It is a natural wonder. From its base to the top of the arch, it reaches 88,4 m (290 ft) – nearly the height of the Statue of Liberty – and spans 83,8 m (275 ft) across the river. The top of the arch is 12,8 m (42 ft) thick and 10 m (33 ft) wide.
The World’s busiest bridge is the Howrah bridge across the river Hooghly in Calcutta, India. In addition to some 150,000 vehicles a day it carries more than four million pedestrians across its 457 m (1,500 ft) long 22 m (72 ft) wide span.
Updated 2011
First stone lighthouse lit by only 24 candles
Leaning Tower of Pisa has never really been straight!
02/05/2010. Category: construction. Tags: bridges, highest, longest.
You may also like -


It once was law to say “God bless you”
Home » odd » Odd laws
Odd laws
During the 6th Century, it was customary to congratulate people who sneezed because it was thought that they were expelling evil from their bodies. During the great plague of Europe, the Pope passed a law to say “God bless you” to one who sneezed.
There still are some weird laws on the books. In Washington state, it is against the law to boast that one’s parents are rich. In Maryland, it’s illegal to play Randy Newman’s “Short People” on the radio.
In Alabama it is illegal to play Dominoes on Sunday.
In Minneapolis, double-parkers can be put on a chain gang.
In 1313, King Edward II enacted that “You are forbidden from dying in parliament.”
An old statute in Kentucky states that men who push their wives out of bed for inflicting their cold toes on them can be fined or jailed for a week.
A 100-year-old law in Willowdale, Oregon makes it illegal to swear during sex.
An odd law in Minnesota makes it illegal to hang male and female underwear on the same washing line.
In Melbourne, Australia it is illegal for men to parade in strapless dresses – but they are allowed to cross-dress in anything with sleeves.
In Texas, two categories of men are exempt from peeping tom charges: men over 50 and men with only one eye.
An old law in Russia allows a police officer to “beat a peeping tom soundly.”
A pregnant woman can urinate anywhere she wishes, including a policeman’s helmet, according to a London local by-law.
In Vermont, women require their husbands permission to wear false teeth.
In Virginia, horses of more than one year old are prohibited in a place of worship.
In Tennessee, shooting any game other than whales from a moving automobile is against the law.
In Normal, Oklahoma you could be sent to prison for “making an ugly face at a dog.”
Black robes
Judges’ robes were not always black. In fact, they used to be as colorful as predicted by the fashion of the day. However, to mourn the death of Queen Mary II in 1964, judges wore black robes… and never changed back to another color.
Even so, clothes don’t maketh the man: for good reason lawyers still are the most distrusted members of society.
Also see April Fool or give dumblaws.com a visit; it’s not against the law!
02/07/2010. Category: odd. Tags: laws.
You may also like -


Cooking tips to fix kitchen spoils
Home » food » Cooking tips to fix those spoils
Cooking tips to fix those spoils
If a soup or stew is too salty, add raw cut potatoes. Discard them after they have cooked – they will have absorbed the salt.
If a soup or stew is too sweet, add salt. If a main dish or vegetable is too sweet, add a teaspoon of cider vinegar.
Can’t remember if an egg is fresh or hard boiled? Just spin the egg. If it wobbles, it’s raw. If it spins easily, it’s hard boiled.
A fresh egg will sink in water, a stale one will float.
An egg white is easiest to beat at room temperature. Take the egg out of the refrigerator about 1/2 hour before using.
For light, fluffy scrambled eggs, add a little water while beating the eggs.
Add vinegar to the water when boiling eggs. The vinegar helps seal the egg. (Michel Roux has useful egg tips in his book Eggs)
To avoid ‘onion eyes‘ peel under cold water or refrigerate (or freeze) before chopping.
To perk up soggy lettuce, add lemon juice to a bowl of cold water and soak lettuce for an hour in the refrigerator.
When cooking carrots, peas, beets or corn, add a small amount of sugar to the water to keep the flavor.
To keep sweet corn yellow, add one teaspoon of lemon juice to the cooking water just about a minute before taking off the stove. Never salt the water you cook corn in. It will only toughen the corn.
Store celery and lettuce in paper bags, not plastic. And leave the outside leaves and stalks alone until ready to use.
Sunlight doesn’t ripen tomatoes, warmth does. Store tomatoes with stems pointed down and they will stay fresher, longer. More on tomatoes.
Meat loaf will not stick if you place a slice of bacon on the bottom of the pan.
To soften rock-hard brown sugar, simply add a slice of soft bread to the package and close the bag tightly. In a few hours the sugar will be soft again.
Place green fruits in a perforated plastic bag. The holes will allow air to circulate while retaining the ethylene gas that fruits produce during ripening.
Remove fat from soups and stews by dropping ice cubes into the pot. The fat will cling to the cubes as you stir. Take out the cubes before they melt. Or you can also wrap the ice cubes in cheesecloth or paper towel and skim over the top of the pot. Fat also cling to lettuce leaves.
Poke a hole in the middle of the hamburger patties while shaping them. The burgers will cook faster and the holes will disappear when done.
For fluffier, whiter rice, add one teaspoon of lemon juice per litre (quart) of water. To add extra flavor and nutrition to rice, cook it in liquid reserved from cooking vegetables.
Marshmallows won’t dry out when frozen.
If your stew is slightly burnt, milk will take the burnt taste out.
The best way to thaw fish is in milk. The milk draws out the frozen taste and gives the fish a fresh flavor.
Did you know?
The tongue is a muscle with glands, sensory cells and fatty tissue that helps to moisten food with saliva. You cannot taste food unless it is mixed with saliva.
02/09/2010. Category: food. Tags: cooking, fluffy, salty, tips.
You may also like -


History and origins of Christmas
All about Christmas
The word “Christmas” means “Mass of Christ,” later shortened to “Christ-Mass.” The even shorter form “Xmas” – first used in Europe in the 1500s – is derived from the Greek alphabet, in which X is the first letter of Christ’s name: Xristos, therefore “X-Mass.”
Today we know that Christ was not born on the 25th of December. The date was chosen to coincide with the pagan Roman celebrations honoring Saturnus (the harvest god) and Mithras (the ancient god of light), a form of sun worship. These celebrations came on or just after the winter solstice, the shortest day of the year in the northern hemisphere, to announce that winter is not forever, that life continues, and an invitation to stay in good spirit.
But there’s much more to the fascinating history of Christmas! Where did the Christmas tree originate, why are Christmas candles important, etc.? The answers are all here.
Ho-Ho-Ho – just click and go.
The history of Christmas
Christmas became popular only fairly recently.
Father Christmas
Who is the real Santa Claus?
Jesus Christ
When was He really born?
Magi, the gift givers
All kinds of gifts, all kinds of givers. But how many magi were there?
Christmas trees
They were hung upside down in the Middle Ages! And when to put up a Christmas tree.
Christmas carols
How many versions of Silent Night did you say there are?
Christmas cards
They’re quite nice: whose idea was it?
Christmas stamps
Look a lot like little Christmas cards.
Christmas crackers
You just have to have some.
Christmas pudding
It won’t be Christmas without the pudding.
The Reindeer
How do they fly and what speed do they reach?
The elves
They invented the magic toymaking machine.
Christmas gifts
It ain’t just for kids, is it?
The mistletoe
What really happens when you kiss under the mistletoe?
“Boxing Day?”
Why is it called that?
“Merry Christmas” in different languages Other festivals over the Christmas season Solstice: origin of Christmas celebrations.
The Christmas candy cane, shaped as a shepherds’ crook, represents the humble shepherds who were first to worship the new-born Christ.
Legend has it that the candy cane was invented in 1670 by a choirmaster at the Cologne Cathedral who handed out the bent sugar sticks among children to keep them quiet during the long Living Crèche ceremony.
AD is short for Anno Domini, or “Year of our Lord,” as proclaimed by the Roman Catholic Church. Some non-Christians prefer the alternative designation “CE” for “Common Era.”
You may also like -


